SerialEM and associated documentation and plugins are
copyright (C) 2003-2019 by the Regents of the University of Colorado.

The following license applies to the SerialEM executable and it source code:

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

The SerialEM source can be found at
http://bio3d.colorado.edu/SerialEM/OpenSerialEM

The SerialEMCCD plugin to DigitalMicrograph is open source under the GNU
General Public License (GPL) version 2.0, and may be modified and
redistributed under the terms of this license.  A copy of this license is in
the file GPL.txt.  This source can be found at
http://bio3d.colorado.edu/SerialEM/SerialEMCCD

The camera and microscope plugins to SerialEM distributed with the program are
not open source.  The University of Colorado reserves the exclusive rights of
preparing derivative works of these plugins to SerialEM, and distributing
copies for sale, lease or lending.  Users may reproduce the full software
package including plugins to SerialEM for use within their own institution, as
long as the copyright notice and other notices are preserved.  The plugins to
SerialEM may not be distributed for profit, either in original form or in
derivative works.

THIS PLUGIN SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED WITH NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND WARRANTY OF
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
                                                                    
SerialEM uses TIFF libraries which are Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
and Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.

Because SerialEM uses the libjpeg library, this software is based in part on
the work of the Independent JPEG Group.  SerialEM also uses the zlib library,
which is Copyright (c) 1995-2010 by Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler.

SerialEM uses the libcfshr, libiimod, and libifft libraries from IMOD, which
are covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), a copy of which
is in LGPL.txt.  SerialEM also includes the Mini-XML library from IMOD,
which is Copyright 2003-2016 by Michael R. Sweet and is covered by the
modified Library GPL in Mini-XML.txt.  SerialEM also includes the ctffind
library from IMOD, adapted from the ctffind program of Alexis Rohou and
Nikolaus Grigorieff, which is Copyright (c) 2018, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, and is covered by the Janelia Research Campus Software License
1.2.

SerialEM uses Intel Math Kernel Library FFT routines under a purchased
license.

SerialEM also uses a Set dialog DPI helper class, Copyright (C) 2003 by George
Yohng, and XFolderDialog by Hans Dietrich.

This work was supported in the past by NIH P41 grants from NCRR and NIGMS to
J. Richard McIntosh and Andreas Hoenger.
