This is a record of changes to SerialEM since it was first publicly released.

* marks changes or enhancements noticeable to the user, or items of particular
significance.
============================================================================
10/29/18: Added focus, stage, and screen control to scope control panel.

10/29/18: Images from a Dumb Falcon 3 (no advanced scripting) are scaled by
exposure time.

10/29/18: Inverted direction of focus and Z height changes on Hitachi because
tilting is around the Y, not the X, axis.

10/21/18: Allowed continuous mode to be used for mag IS offset calibration and
enabled everything but mag button in scope control panel during this cal.

10/21/18: In continuous mode, enabled scope control panel during and made it
blank beam during operations like mag change that make transients.

10/21/18: Added alpha to low dose summary line and alpha spinner to scope
control panel.

10/21/18: Adjusted for fact that there is no nanoprobe in low mag mode.

10/17/18: Fixed a bug that crashed program trying to display custom hole
pattern when no regular hole patteren had been set up.

10/17/18: Added property to set a detector on JEOL to insert/retract
complementary to main screen.

10/17/18: Added a parameter validation call for OneView.

10/14/18: Fixed bug when saving frames with K3 and using a binning that
requires trimming the image returned to SerialEM.

10/14/18: When doing an early return with no return image, made it not roll
buffers and make another copy of the last image in A.

10/10/18: Added ability to delay setting IS after an external mag change on
JEOL.

10/10/18: Saved K2 and other direct detector processing modes (linear vs.
counting) in non-low-dose states.

10/1/18: Fixed problem with skipping numbers in the filenames when fitting
montage to polygon in New file at item.

10/1/18: Changed hot key for enabling CTF fitting from Shift-D to Ctrl-D,
which fixes multiple deletion in the Navigator with Shift-D.

10/1/18: Added a menu option to add a grid of points just like the last one,
without having to answer any queries.

10/1/18: A grid of points can now be specified by 7 points instead of 5 to
overcome inaccuracy in the inter-hole interval specified by adjacent point.

10/1/18: Added an option to skip the montage dialog when fitting a montage to
a polygon.

10/1/18: Made it possible to set up tilt series or new file at items for a
range of points by pressing Shift T or Shift N twice.

10/1/18: Made the first off-center multi-shot image within a hole be taken
along the tilt axis.

10/1/18: Added smallest defocus for analysis to CTF acquire parameter
entries.

9/27/18: Added check for neutral image shift values being correct on JEOL.

9/27/18: Added ability to tilt in steps, shutter the beam, and optionally
change focus or image shift during an acquisition that saves frames. Added
script commands: to set this up for regular tilts or for ones specified in an
array variable that can be read from a text file; to save a file with actual
tilt angles; to give the K2 camera a threshold below which it will skip saving
frames.

9/27/18: Added dose per frame line to camera setup dialog.

9/27/18: Initial changes to support Tietz XF416.
9/24/18: SEM_3-6-22
9/24/18: Fixed image rastering problem with K2 in early return unaligned
partial sum when aligning frames (In 3.6).

9/7/18: Made installer detect that GMS is 64-bit from files ending in _64.* or
_x64.* in Licenses directory (In 3.6).

8/29/18: Fixed control panel positions for Windows 10.

8/24/18: Made SerialEMCCD plugin open all TIFF files as big TIFF to be able
to save > 4 GB.

8/24/18: Added ability to set limit on minimum resolution for CTF fitting when
there is a non-zero phase.

8/24/18: Changed default spherical aberration from 2 to 2.5.

8/21/18: Fixed setting of hardware binning for DE camera.

8/21/18: Added script command to save navigator file.

8/21/18: Added script command to report the same subset of properties that can
be set.

8/21/18: Made acquire box and multi-shot drawing happen as if low dose mode is
on in dummy mode.

8/21/18: Added script command to move stage by camera pixels.

8/9/18: Made script processor not try to move stage with 0 movement (In 3.6).

8/6/18: Added ability to use Ctrl to extend the delay time for getting a
single mag or spot change when using the spinners in the scope control panel.

8/6/18: Made Unblank button in Low Dose and STEM control panels able to blank
beam also.

8/6/18: Fixed coma-free alignment test for enough astigmatism range.

8/6/18: Fixed missing titles from 7/29 fix (In 3.6).

8/3/18: FIXED BEAM TILT COMPENSATION FOR IMAGE SHIFT IN MULTI_-SHOT ROUTINE,
broken when multiple holes were added.  Fixed setting of beam tilt with
post-actions, which never worked.

8/3/18: Made the multi-shot routine set beam tilt with the same backlash used
in the coma correction routine.

8/3/18: Made calibration of beam tilt versus image shift go to Record area
before saving scope state.

8/3/18: Fixed dark subtraction when normalizing in SerialEM and a camera can
provide dark-subtracted or normalized data.

8/3/18: Added support for floating point images from plugin cameras.

8/3/18: Eliminated Low Dose radio buttons for area to show when screen down.

8/3/18: Added log, log base 10, and exponential script functions.

8/3/18: Changed multi-shot dialog to keep display and dialog up to date when
relevant conditions change.

7/29/18: Fixed crash from the axis rotation title being too long (In 3.6).

7/19/18: Added ability to continue script commands onto multiple lines by
ending them with a backslash after a space.

7/19/18: Initialized variable to prevent camera routine from trying to do a
beam tilt in post-actions.

7/19/18: Prevented error message when it fails to close clumn valves during a
crash.

7/19/18: Added separate buttons for going to a low dose area to low dose panel
and reverted the radio buttons to just controlling show when screen down.

7/19/18" Added current camera name to camera & script tools panel.

7/10/18: Added script commands to report on next Nav item to be acquired,
change item labels and colors, make an anchor map, and strip digits from the
end of a string.

7/10/18: Fixed crash after getting an error setting up K2 saving/aligning,
fixed buffer overrun and crash with long defect file names. (In 3.6)

7/2/18: Fixed returned image not being reduced correctly when aligning K2
images with binning 3 or 6.

7/2/18: Added a small delay per frame to startup delay in K2 with dose
fractionation.  Revised camera timing output and instructions to tell people
just to use the minimum StartupDelay instead of changing the allowed minimum.

6/29/18: Improved sychronization between acquisition and post-actions to
prevent image shift from starting before end of exposure on K2.  Prevented
post-actions from starting too soon on a shot after a K2 early return, which
is critical for multiple Records.

6/29/18: Fixed multishot option to do early return only on last shot, and to
not restore image shift/beam tilt on STOP during an acquisition, but have the
camera module do it when the image is finished; also synchronized with current
dialog settings if it is open.

6/29/18: Added script commands to enter a string in a text box, and to compare
strings.

6/26/18: Made Navigator find map files when loading or merging a Nav file and
allow more flexible locations of files as long as relative locations are
maintained.

6/26/18: On JEOL, when changing low dose areas at same mag and different
alphas, do image and beam shifts at same alpha in each direction.

6/26/18: Changed Setup Full Montage to avoid loss of corner pieces when stage
is at oblique angle.

6/24/18: Additional K3 developments for using hardware binning in continuous
mode and for saving frames; properties, dialogs, and setup documented.

6/24/18: SEM-3-6-21
6/24/18: Fixed wrong defocus offset being saved for View anchor map (In 3.6).

6/17/18: SEM_3-6-20
6/15/18: Fixed check for assigning to persistent variable as regular and vice
versa.

6/14/18: Fixed anchor map staying in low dose to not duplicate map offsets (In
3.6).

6/14/18: Added property SkipAdvancedScripting to avoid trying to use the
advanced scripting interface for FEI cameras, which is necessary if there is
no license for it.

6/14/18: Fixed checking for balanced parentheses in commands where arithmetic
is not allowed.

5/29/18: SEM_3-6-17
5/29/18: Added support for K3 camera.  Parallelized several frame-processing
steps, with modest time-savings on K2 and good savings on K3.

5/29/18: Fixed JEOL scope plugin to connect with older TemExt64 versions by
using the old class ID after failing with the new one.

5/29/18: Fixed loss of OneView drift correction setting, broken 11/3/17.

5/29/18: Made beam intensity calibration use counting mode for K2 when dose
rate is low enough and set exposure and count parameters automatically.

5/29/18: Fixed CTF-based astigmatism correction to account for rotation
between calibrated and current mag.

5/29/18: Fixed crash when double-clicking on a Navigator point loads the
montage piece and rotate on load is set.

5/29/18: Fixed lookup of astigmatism/coma calibration at nearest mag (In 3.6).

5/25/18: Sped up saving from K2 by computing min/max/mean from samples instead
of whole image (In 3.6).

5/23/18: Fixed test in tilt series for whether stage tilted to correct angle
(In 3.6).

5/11/18: Fixed mag change when changing EFTEM state in Low Dose mode and the
parameters are not defined for current area in the other state.

5/11/18: There are script commands for testing image location and beam tilt
compensation when doing multiple Records, and setting up multiple holes is now
documented.

5/11/18: Added free lens control script commands for JEOL.

5/11/18: The script processor now saves and restores beam tilt specifically
for the current probe mode.

5/11/18: Made CTF-base coma/astigmatism go to Record area with its possible
probe mode change before saving any values.

5/11/18: Stopped turning on "very sloppy" option for stage montages (In 3.6).

5/6/18: Fix crash when reading in settings with one-line script.

5/6/18: Try to leave low dose mode when crashing.

5/6/18: Added script commands to load a map.

5/6/18: Made autofocus abort if too many iterations measure a defocus near
zero, and if there are too many iterations where the change was not limited.

5/6/18: Made Montage Prescan not increase the binning by more than 2 for some
CMOS cameras with fast readouts (direct detectors, OneView, Ceta), and made it
not drop the exposure time so much in low dose mode by allowing counts to
increase up to 4-fold.

4/27/18: Multiple records can now be taken from multiple holes as well as
from multiple positions in a hole.

4/27/18: Added script commands to load a map and added option to adjust note
on a new map.

4/27/18: Modified polygon used to get full montage to avoid loss of corner
pieces due to coordinates out of range.

4/27/18: Fixed failure to clear existing summed frame list when reading in new
settings file (In 3.6).

4/26/18: SEM_3-6-16
4/18/18: Added property to set minimum spot size to use.

4/12/18: Fixed uninitialized pointer causing crash when aligning with K2.

4/10/18: Raised scope update interval to 150 ms and made vacuum update happen
every ~1.7 sec (In 3.6).

4/10/18: Changes to support Z stage movement for Hitachi HT7800 (In 3.6).

3/29/18: Added name of STEM detector to image display if there is more than
one detector.

3/28/18: If a low dose map is used for anchor state, new anchor map will be
taken in low dose mode too, instead of just matching parameters (In 3.6).

3/28/18: Added ability to run a script after each acquisition in acquire at
items.

3/28/18: Added long operations for filling nitrogen or flashing FEG on
JEOL CryoARM.

3/28/18: Prevented standard focus from being set for montaging in LM when in
Low Dose mode.

3/28/18: When a view or search focus offset is being set while going across LM
boundary, it retains the focus across the boundary so offset can be set
correctly.

3/21/18: A few more tweaks in the CTF-based astigmatism/coma routine.

3/21/18: Added calibration of beam tilt needed to compensate image shift, made
multi-shot routine able to use this, added some related script commands and
options on image shift commands to do compensation for he image shift.

3/21/18: Switched Ctffind outout from showing defocus 1 and 2 to showing
average defocus and astigmatism (difference between the two).

3/21/18: Added ability to make a true JPEG file because ImageJ will not
display JPEG-compressed TIFFs and mad JPEG/JPG an allowed file type on the
SaveToOtherFile command.
3/18/18: Prevented right click in edit mode from moving map or polygon
(In 3.6).

3/17/18: Fixed color image inversion when zoomed down with antialiasing
(In 3.6).

3/1/18: Fixed coordinates in piece put into nav file for 2-piece case.

3/1/18: Added script commands for reporting current file number and last
measured astigmatism or beam tilt.

2/18/18 Added script command that behaves like Echo but evaluates arithmetic
expressions.

2/18/18: SEM_3-6-15
2/16/18: Adjusted Low Dose post-image shift delay factors from 0.6 to 0.9 for
Record and from 2 to 1.5 for Focus.  Fixed Focus using Trial factor of 0.6 if
the two are tied together.

2/16/18: Arithmetic expressions are now allowed on all script commands
starting with "Set" and many others.

2/16/18: In camera setup dialog, fixed estimate of dose rate at camera for
difference in mag between low dose areas.

2/16/18: Fixed various aspects of doing coma-free alignment in Low Dose,
including focusing with Record and adding a big settling time when not
starting in Record.

2/10/18: Added routines for astigmatism correction and coma-free alignment by
CTF fitting to images with Thon rings.  The latter is much better than the old
coma-free alignment routine and requires no calibration.

2/10/18: Fixed Navigator "go to" movements when there are incorrect mag IS
offsets not being applied and superceded by View shift offset.  Also fixed
both "go to" and Realign to Item initial movement with Balance Shifts on.
(In 3.6).

2/10/18: Just ignore scripts beyond those allowed in the current version
instead of making it a settings read error, so settings files from versiosn
with more scripts can be read (In 3.6).

2/7/18: Fixed failure to read a settings file with a script line having more
than 40 words (In 3.6).

1/24/18: Stopped calling DM to ensure existence of dark reference for a K2
camera when post-actions are going to occur (In 3.6).

1/23/18: Added output on status bar of frequency and resolution for a point
clicked in FFT with middle mouse button.

1/23/18: Added ctffind module, options to support fitting to Thon rings when
click in FFT, and CtfFind script command to run it with specified parameters.

1/10/18: Made non-calibration parameters saved in the short-term calibration
file be used even when the property to ignore short-terms cals is set.

1/10/18: Added property for limiting the frame sizes in montages fit to
polygons at specific mags.

1/3/18: Fixed bug in limiting K2 coordinates entered with SetCameraArea (In
3.6).

1/3/18: Added menu option and script command to reduce an image in size with
an antialiasing filter.

1/3/18: Added script command to start Navigator Acquire when the script ends,
and a Postpone button to the Acquire dialog for setting parameters only.

1/1/18: Expanded SuffixForExtraFile command to provide suffixes for more than
one extra file to open during Navigator acquisition.

1/1/18: Added option to save multiple extra Records into separate stack
files instead of all into one.

1/1/18: Allowed up to 6 STEM channels to be obtained simultaneously during
tilt series.  Added STEM channel name to mdoc file.

12/29/17: Made truncation when saving as bytes be expressed as percentage
instead of number of pixels, be saved as a setting, and have a separate value
for single-file saving so JPEG-compressed TIFFs can look OK without adjusting
contrast.

12/29/17: Made low dose do image shift change before leaving search mode on
JEOL using PLA.

12/18/17: Add frame alignment parameters for binning to a target size to avoid
a set binning becoming inappropriate for different size frames.

12/8/17: SEM_3-6-14
12/6/17: Changed script beam size measurement from radius to diameter.

12/3/17: Added frame alignment for DE camera frames.

12/3/17: Fixed coordinates in piece put into nav file.

11/30/17: Enabled obtaining normalized images from AMT cameras if AMT version
is high enough (In 3.6).

11/30/17: Fixed crash from using drift correction with OneView with a
non-square subarea (In 3.6).

11/26/17: Added option to skip file properties dialog.  Started saving file
type and compression type for save single/other in settings so it would be
easy to save a particular type of compressed tiff from that command without
having to revisit the file properties dialog.

11/24/17: Made the program store the fraction of the area in the frame
occupied by the main image window so that the window can be kept reliably
smaller than the frame; the allocation of width between the main and
FFT window is also stored and can be easily adjusted.

11/20/17: Fixed potential problems with spot intensity calibrations that do
not start at spot 1 (In 3.6).

11/19/17: Added small dialog for entering and running a single-line script
command.

11/9/17: Substituted variables in SaveLogOpenNew command (In 3.6).

11/8/17: Fixed loss of PriorRecordDose and FramesDosesCounts from mdoc for
first part of bidirectional tilt series.

11/5/17 SEM_3-6-13
11/5/17: Fixed the lack of defect correction when drift correction is used in
the OneView if there is no BasicCorrections property entry (In 3.6).

11/3/17: Preliminary version with changes for DE camera
counting/super-resolution modes and ability to set save folder.

11/3/17: Rearranged camera setup so that dark reference options could be
hidden when inappropriate, also hide shuttering and lower size buttons for
Falcon.

10/22/17: Prevented DE camera FPS value from being put in wrong camera's
parameters (In 3.6).

10/21/17: Added a task to take multiple Record shots in a hole with image
shift, a script command to run the task, an option to draw the pattern of
shots when showing the Acquire area in Navigator, and a dialog to set the
parameters for the task and for drawing.

10/21/17: Added script commands to measure beam size from beam edges in the
image, and to shift the beam by an amount in microns or as a fraction of field
size.

10/18/17: Add a property to turn off Convert Maps to Bytes by default.

10/14/17: Fixed fast continuous mode for Gatan cameras with a GIF in the
system to not stop and restart (In 3.6).

10/13/17: Fixed crash with early return from 9/17 changes.

10/11/17: Fixed method of looking up mag index from a mag value, which fixes
problems in removing IS and stage calibrations (In 3.6).

10/10/17: Fixed message boxes coming out from errors in post-exposure actions
when errors are just supposed to terminate batch tilt series or script.

10/10/17: Made the Refill long operation give a special message that it
probably completed with a misleading error.

10/9/17: Added script command to take Record and tilt to specific angle after
exposure; made RecordAndTilt... command require that post-exposure actions be
enabled, and added command to report whether they are.

10/3/17: Added script commands so that entire tilt series run by script could
be aligned in IMOD just like ones run by the Tilt Series Controller.

10/3/17: Increased timeout for blanker/post-action thread to finish when
tilting.  If the thread times out and has to be killed, it is done in a way
that releases the access to the JOEL scope.

10/3/17: Imposed constraints on exposure time and intermediate frame
selections when aligning in Falcon 3 processor.

10/1/17: Fixed report on frame saving when aligning whole TS in IMOD and
saving is imposed rather than selected (In 3.6).

9/17/17: Provided for different scaling of counting and linear mode images
from Falcon 3 with the power of 2 for scaling selectable by property.  Added
preliminary linearization of counting mode dose rates.

9/17/17: Added image-specific counts per electron value to mdoc file.

9/17/17: Applied dose rate linearization for counting mode to output of
ElectronStats script command and added a command RawElectronStats for
unlinearized values.

9/16/17: Stopped function for getting dose rate from image mean from getting
relative gain factor from the wrong buffer (In 3.6).

9/12/17: Added ability to align frames from Falcon cameras in SerialEM and
write command files for aligning with IMOD, just as with K2.

9/12/17: Added script commands for suppressing the check on frame alignment
parameter suitability before taking image, for testing program version and for
skipping a command based on program version.

9/12/17: Fixed RealignToNavItem command to not leave IS at 0 by mistake.

9/1/17: Added optional entries to the RealignToNavItem command to reset image
and realign until IS is below a threshold, and to leave IS at 0.

9/1/17: Added script menu option to clear persistent variables.

8/31/17: Added option to save frame align com files to same folder as frames.

8/31/17: Added checks for beam intensity calibrations with 0 intensities.

8/29/17: SEM_3-6-12
8/29/17: Fixed camera setup dialog opening at its last size (In 3.6).

8/29/17: Turned warning that image shift has not been calibrated for a montage
from message box to log window output (In 3.6).

8/28/17: Fixed SaveToOtherFile command to save specified, not active buffer.

8/28/17: When an image that was already saved is saved to single/other file,
retain the previous save information so that it can be made into a map.

8/28/17: Started using Intel FFT routines.

8/18/17: Fixed autofocus to apply change limits and absolute focus limits
after first iteration instead of clearing them (In 3.6).

8/17/17: Made it change the "drawn on" map ID for points drawn on an imported
map to be the ID for the native EM map that it was registered to.

8/17/17: Fixed problem with switching "Use montage mapping parameters" when
fitting a montage.

8/16/17: Added ability to relax stage by moving it back slightly from the
direction of its previous movement, in order to reduce drift.  There is a
script command to assess its value, a command to do a relaxation, and
ResetImageShift can include the relaxation when it imposes or retains
backlash.

8/16/17: Added ability to pause non-tilt series Navigator acquisition after
the current item and resume; relabeled more buttons in Camera and Script
control panel to make it easier to control Navigator acquisition.

8/8/17: Added ability to set View or Search shift offsets by placing the
marker at corresponding points in two images.

8/7/17: Search mode in Low Dose now has almost all the capabilities as View,
with the ability to take montages in Search, set defocus and shift offsets for
it, and have those offsets used properly in Realign to Item.

8/7/17: Added separate camera parameters for Search, and a new parameter set
that can be selected to be used for montages.  If fewer options are desired in
the camera setup dialog, each of these can be hidden.

8/7/17: In Low Dose mode, it now allows the binning to be set differently in
the montage setup dialog without changing exposure time.

8/7/17: View defocus offset can now be changed by an unlimited amount without
causing Realign to Item to leave Low Dose mode.

8/7/17: Made Realign to Item work better when the View/Search offset is
changed after making map and it leaves Low Dose mode.

8/7/17: Adjustments for high defocus are now applied to stage calibrations
only in nonLM mode.

7/21/17: Added property for increasing stage timeout time (In 3.6).

7/20/17: Added test that spot size was successfully set for the calibration
routines that step through spots (In 3.6).

7/19/17: Stopped it from turning off Low Dose when switching back to a montage
file after changing the Record binning (In 3.6).

7/14/17: Added ability to align subset of frames either in plugin or in IMOD
when saving K2 frames.

7/14/17: Added ability to restrict frame alignment parameters to 4K or 8K
frames, or to aligning in plugin versus IMOD, with some automatic switching
when appropriate.

7/14/17: SEM_3-6-11
7/14/17: Fixed setting of diffraction focus on JEOLs (In 3.6).

7/14/17: Fix specimen dose estimates to not add "extra beam time" for cameras
where it does not apply (In 3.6).

7/14/17: Fix crash when making montage overview with shifts bigger than the
area being put into the overview (In 3.6).

7/13/17: Clear out long summed frame lists and give a message saying to set
them up again (In 3.6).

7/9/17: SEM_3-6-10
7/8/17: Add Navigator option to all current Low Dose parameters to be used
instead of the map parameters for Realign to Item.

7/7/17: Fix fitting of View mode montage to polygon and drawing of Trial/Focus
areas on View image to take account of high defocus mag calibration (In 3.6).

7/5/17: In Navigator Acquire at Items, added options for doing a subset of
items, skipping stage move if possible, and skipping stage move in Z.  There
is also a script command to enable skipping the stage move.


7/4/17: Fixed tilt series variations dialog to constrain exposure time series
to multiple of frame time for Falcon and DE cameras (In 3.6).

7/4/17: Added to mdoc file the dose per frame when frames saved, and
prior cumulative dose in Record area for tilt series images.

7/3/17: Added special option to normalize all lenses when changing mag within
LM or on all mag changes; when changing between LM and nonLM, it now does
objective normalization too and uses one normalize call on FEI scopes.

6/25/17: Fixed output of a pcm file for other Records when aligning whole tilt
series in IMOD, and two other issues when frame-saving is automatically
imposed with aligning in IMOD (In 3.6).

6/24/17: Added script command to set frame rate of DE camera.

6/24/17: Preliminary support for new FEI camera interface and Falcon 3 added.

6/15/17: Added property to set the maximum beam radius allowed when centering
beam with low dose tracking images in tilt series (In 3.6).

6/14/17: Fixed setting of drift settling for Eagle through plugin/server
(In 3.6).

6/9/17: SEM_3-6-9
6/2/17: Fixed use of K2 asynchronous readout to RAM when frame alignment is
selected (In 3.6).

5/25/17: Fixed reporting of frames saved and writing to frame mdoc when frame
saving is turned on for aligning in IMOD (In 3.6).

5/25/17: Made it restore the correct focus when autofocus is aborted after
starting from Low Dose View mode (In 3.6).

5/23/17: Script commands writing to an autodoc can write to global section if
there are no images yet.

5/23/17: Fixed SetUserSetting command for integer value, added update call
after this command so changes propagate through system.

5/17/17: Script processor now searches in current script first for a
function with no script name in front of it, thus allowing duplicate
function names in other scripts.

5/16/17: Fixed initial script checking to allow calling a function from both
another script and the script it is in (In 3.6).

5/7/17: Added script commands for getting and setting condenser-image plane
distance offset on Titan.

5/6/17: When "Align in IMOD" is selected for K2 frames, it will automatically
turn on frame saving but retain the user's setting for this (In 3.6).

5/3/17: Fixed setting of X beam tilt with adjustment in coma-free routine,
broken 2/26/17.

4/25/17: SEM_3-6-8
4/24/17: Realign to Item stays in Low Dose even if spot size or filter
settings change; the map settings are still applied.  Also it stays in Low
Dose if View defocus offset changes by up to 20 microns. (In 3.6).

4/23/17: Fixed storage of last time done when hardware dark reference is
updated (In 3.6).

4/23/17: Fixed AddToAutodoc command to release autodoc mutex (In 3.6).

4/20/17: SEM_3-6-7
4/20/17: Fixed option for saving raw K2 frames with "Gain normalized" selected
in camera setup, which failed when there was settling (In 3.6).

4/20/17: Fixed test that would make Realign to Item go out of Low Dose when
there is an energy filter (In 3.6).

4/17/17: Added script command to skip points in the current group.

4/15/17: Added script command for writing a single-image file of specified
type and compression.

4/15/17: Added option for saving TIFF files with JPEG compression.

4/13/17: SEM-3-6-6
4/13/17: Fix TIFF writing, broken 4/5/17 (In 3.6).

4/13/17: Fixed writing of long summed frame lists (In 3.6).

4/13/17: Added automatic indentation of scripts with Tab/` and stabilized line
in editor window when Tab is used.

4/13/17: Changed dose rate output in microscope status panel to be per sqaure
Angstrom and appear unconditionally, and changed dose rate output in camera
setup dialog to be rate at camera, estimated from prior images.

4/11/17: SEM_3-6-5
4/10/17: Made cartridge loading and unloading be long operations; unload can
be run as one of the LongOperation entries.

4/10/17: Added test code for controlling JEOL free lens control (undocumented).

4/10/17: Fixed UpdateHardwareDarkRef command to treat its hours value properly
and to keep script from plowing ahead after starting it (In 3.6).

4/9/17: Added ability to import navigator items with positions defined by
image coordinates on maps.

4/8/17: Updated MiniXML library to eliminate bad memory leaks when reading or
writing an XML file (In 3.6).

4/6/17: Fixed double-clicking to remove Navigator point with collapse groups
on (In 3.6).

4/6/17: Added a camera property to enable or disable post-exposure actions for
one camera; for OneView, post-actions are disabled by default (In 3.6).

4/5/17: Fixed Realign to Item going out of Low Dose when realigning to a
polygon map where frame sizes are not the same as the current image sizes;
also enabled staying in Low Dose with change in intensity, exposure, or binning
between the map and current Low Dose parameters (In 3.6).

4/5/17: Prevented progressive change of IS when setting and restoring a state
goes out of and into Low Dose with Balance Shifts on; also improved behavior
of Realign to Item with  Balance Shifts on (In 3.6).

4/5/17: Fixed doubling of values in montage overview from unsigned images,
which solves wraparound of high values and bad scaling when loading maps as
bytes; also fixed another source of bad scaling when loading maps (In 3.6).

3/17/17: Fix having it drop screen for STEM when leaving camera setup even
when not going into STEM (In 3.6).

3/15/17: Properly initialized image shift values when switching to a low dose
imaging state; zero out axis position values > 100 from settings (In 3.6).

3/13/17: Added script commands to change a Navigator item's registration and
to shift items by a given number of microns.

3/2/17: Made it retry once when there is a timeout during fast continuous
acquisition even if CameraRetries is 0 (In 3.6).

3/13/17: SEM_3-6-4
3/13/17: Added properties MaximumSlitWidth to set the maximum width for a GIF
and GIFadjustsForSlitWidth to indicate that SerialEM does not need to adjust
energy shift for changes in slit width; also increased default time interval
for detecting ZLP alignment in DM from 5 to 6 seconds. (In 3.6).

3/9/17: Fixed wrong checkboxes showing up in file-saving option dialog for
Falcon (In 3.6).

3/8/17: Fixed transformations used in Navigator to account for tilted images;
basic navigation, polygon montages, and Realign to Item seem to work.

3/8/17: Made the program monitor the beam blanker state for external changes
if there are any FEI cameras, and added a property UpdateBeamBlanker to enable
this otherwise (In 3.6).

3/8/17: Added property BlankDuringTransients to make the program blank the
beam during magnification and spot size changes and lens normalizations to
keep the K2 from retracting due to beam transients (in 3.6).

3/8/17: Added a property KeepEFTEMstate to avoid switching in or out of EFTEM
when the program starts and exits (In 3.6).

3/8/17: Changed color of dose rate and camera name labels to be visible on
noise (In 3.6).

3/8/17: Made it draw navigator label unconditionally if point is more than 40
microns from previous one so labels still show up on low mag maps (In 3.6).

3/6/17: Implemented use of live mode for continous acquisition from DE cameras
and enabled acquisition of normalized images from server.

3/5/17: Fixed taking tilt angle and stage position from buffer if available
when making a montage map (In 3.6).

3/3/17: Gave proper error message if BackgroundTilt is used without the
property set to open a fourth socket (In 3.6).

3/3/17: Fixed changes in current directory from saving calibrations and
short-term calibrations (In 3.6).

3/2/17:SEM_3-6-3
3/2/17: Made it retry opening Falcon frame files since they may still be
locked for writing on the first attempt (In 3.6).

3/2/17: Added output of aligned piece coordinates in montage overview to mdoc
file.

3/1/17: Make sure beam stays blanked except when acquiring for Realign to Item
when it goes out of Low Dose (In 3.6).

2/26/17: Added script command to wait until a specified time after midnight or
an alternative time.

2/26/17: Added script commands to report and set the value of many user
settings by the name used in the settings file.

2/26/17: Made coma-free alignment routine average the estimated misalignment
over multiple iterations, and added a menu option to run one more iteration.

2/26/17: Added Focus menu option to make an array of FFTs of images with beam
tilt in 8 different directions (a Zemlin tableau).

2/26/17: Fixed SetCameraArea script command to take F, H, etc sizes (In 3.6).

2/21/17: Changed message from SEMCCD plugin about two copies to refer to
looking for a hung copy of DM; released mutex earlier (In 3.6).

2/20/17: Fixed copying of remote K2 references when there just a
DigitalMicrographReferencePath and no RemoteDMRefererencePath entry (In 3.6).

* 2/20/17: Increased size of FFT stack to 8 (In 3.6).

* 2/20/17: Showed camera name and dose rate on as many image types as would be
meaningful (In 3.6).

2/19/17: Added report of difference from previous calibration when doing
coma-free calibration (In 3.6).

2/18/17: Switched to using standard API for Direct Electron camera instead of
COM interface.  To use a DE camera, a small plugin, DEcamPlugin.dll, and the
interface library, DeInterface.Win32.dll, must be put in the directory with
SerialEM, but these are not required to run the program.

2/18/17: Made it show a dose rate for K2 counting modes even when there is no
counts per electron defined (In 3.6).

2/17/17: When a click in an FFT indicates a low defocus where equations break
down, it will no longer draw circles at invalid positions or report an invalid
defocus (In 3.6).

* 2/16/17: When changing mag or spot with scope control panel, it will show the
target mag or spot immediately with -> in front of it, until the change is
finished.  Increased multiple click interval to 0.35 sec.  Changed mag output
to show K at 100K and above (In 3.6).

2/10/17: Implemented local variables and local loop indexes that are defined
and accessible only within one function or script.

2/10/17: It is now allowed for script loop counts to be 0 or negative.

2/9/17: Fixed error message when assigning to a loop index variable (In 3.6).

2/8/17: SEM_3-6-2
2/8/17: Fixed rejection of fixed pattern noise peak when measuring defocus to
account for autofocus offset and View defocus properly and to work right on
the second pair of images (In 3.6).

2/8/17: Fixed autofocus with Low Dose View when there is a View defocus
offset, modified script command when just measuring defocus to give either the
defocus at the View area, as it always did, or the implied defocus of Record
(In 3.6).

2/5/17: Fixed LongOperation Da #, broken 12/18/16 (In 3.6).

1/31/17: Added property to allow taking images in spectroscopy mode.

1/31/17: Added SetMagIndex and SetNavRegistration script commands.

1/31/17: Added property to allow use of inverted mag range on Titan for
tasks and stepping through mags with script commands and mag spinners.

1/27/17: SEM_3-6-1
1/26/17: Fixed message when starting coma calibration on JEOL to show maximum
coma beam tilt instead of astigmatism beam tilt (In 3.6).

1/26/17: Fixed install.bat to copy Microsoft .dll's in Windows 2000 (in 3.5).

1/16/17: Added property to use drift settling from Trial parameters in beam
intensity calibration (In 3.6).

1/12/17: Fixed possible vulnerability in the restoring of camera rotation/flip
on exit (In 3.6).

1/11/17: Fixed shifting coordinates of current item when Add Polygon is turned
on then off without adding points (In 3.6).

1/10/17: Fixed  buffer overrun when logging DE properties at startup (In 3.6).

1/10/17: SEM_3-6-0
1/10/17: Fixed defect correction in SEMCCD plugin when aligning and saving
unnormalized frames.

1/9/17: Fixed bad added rotations being set when calibrating pixel size.

1/9/17: Added information lines to Navigator Acquire at Points dialog to
indicate file images will be saved into and whether it is a montage.

1/5/17: Fixed crash when starting astigmatism or coma calibration on JEOL;
added checks for stigmator values out of range.

1/4/17: Fixed plugin to avoid wrong number of frames K2 for some exposure
times with frame times below 0.1 sec.

1/3/17: Fixed trying to get dark field tilt if server version does not support
it.

* 1/3/17: Added option to save K2 frames without normalization while keeping
gain normalization turned on in the camera setup dialog.

1/3/17: Fixed enabling of Set additional beam shift button in Low Dose, which
is now disabled in Record.

* 1/2/17: Disabled drift settling for OneView with 2 shutters when Beam blank
shutter is selected, since it doesn't seem to work.

12/31/16: SEM_3-5-9
* 12/29/16: Added option to tilt series setup to get an initial partial sum
(early return) when saving or aligning frames and then get the full sum
later.

12/29/16: Added option in frame saving detup dialog to save MRC stacks with
extension .mrcs.

12/29/16: Stopped trying to do screen movement and tilting simultaneously in
cooking routine.

* 12/26/16: Changed script commands SetMag/SetMagAndIntensity to go to the
nearest mag if the entered one is not in the middle third of range between two
mags.

* 12/26/16: Added message box replacement that can have custom button labels,
switched to it for complicated Yes-No-Cancel and a few Yes-No choices, and
formatted message text to refer to the button labels.

12/26/16: Added property to set the delay after moving stage for acquiring
distortion pairs.

12/26/16: Added script command and Setting menu item to set value of a large
subset of properties that consist of a single value.

12/26/16: Added a default set of parameters for aligning Super-resolution
frames, listed name of parameter set in Camera Setup dialog, and set the
default for frame alignment to be in the plugin instead of DM.

12/26/16: Added Camera menu item to control the number of lines of log output
from frame alignment.

12/23/16: Made Navigator stage movement skip backlash movement if the move is
in the right direction and either preserves or is big enough to set the
backlash.

* 12/23/16: Made it possible to take images in Search mode with a button or
script command, using the View camera parameters for now.

12/22/16: Fixed initialization of axis offset when reading in states; it was
putting bad axis position into low dose dialog when using the state (In 3.5).

12/21/16: Fixed Add Grid of Points if an image other than the map image is
being displayed (in 3.5).

12/20/16: Added reminder to save calibrations on exit if not in administrator
mode and enough calibrations have been done of certain types.

12/20/16: Allowed camera/montage/tilt series dialogs to show 6 cameras.

* 12/20/16: Added ability to store dark field tilt as Trial/Focus low dose
properties on FEI scopes.

12/19/16: Program can directly detect and control GIF mode on JEOL.

12/19/16: Stored states now include camera processing and K2 frame alignment
selections.

12/19/16: Started keeping track of aperture size for dose calibrations.

* 12/18/16: Stored information in montage mdoc file so that a map can be made
just as well from a read-in image as from a newly acquired one.

12/18/16: Added option to montage setup dialog to control whether OneView
drift correction is turned off for stage montages.

* 12/18/16: Added option to montage setup dialog to enable continuous mode and
control settling time; eliminated script command.

* 12/18/16: Made behavior when saving K2 electron counting frames be the same
for unprocessed and dark-subtracted, since there is no dark subtraction.

12/18/16: Detected when there is new K2 gain reference and updated the defect
list.

* 12/18/16: Added ability to show a message box on an FEI scope through the
plugin and server, with a title and text controlled by script commands.

12/18/16: Added ability to set height of script toolbar buttons then fixed
DPI-related font and sizing problems with that and several other dialogs.

12/18/16: When opening autocenter setup in Low Dose mode, it will insist that
Trial area be set up already, show Trial mag and spot values and disable the
two spinners, try to get existing parameters for that mag and spot (In 3.5).

12/17/16: Fixed keeping track of time since last long operation (In 3.5).

* 12/13/16: Added an offset entry to autofocus calibration range parameters
and suggestions for limiting and offsetting the range for Falcon cameras.

* 12/13/16: Added tilt series options to apply the absolute focus limit and/or
limit focus changes from autofocus to a given amount.

* 12/13/16: Added Focus menu options to define absolute limits for focus around
the eucentric focus; the limits are applied when autofocusing.

12/13/16: Set added rotation when storing results of Find Pixel Size based on
rotations in mag table for an FEI scope.

12/12/16: Fixed setting of positive limit in macro command FocusChangeLimits;
only negative limit was being set (In 3.5).

* 12/12/16: Made title bar show all the open files by file number after the
current file.

12/12/16: List Mags in EFTEM mode will now output the full mag table (In 3.5).

12/12/16: Made mag energy shift calibration stop at proper mag if give the
highest magnification and it is followed by declining mags on a Krios (In 3.5).

12/12/16: Added script command to be used in the preliminary macro when
acquiring at points to make it skip the point and go on; added way to test if
autofocus failed in script.

* 12/12/16: Added checkbox to Navigator to turn off all label drawing and made
it draw only a few labels for points in groups above a threshold size.

* 12/12/16: Added ability to select a range of Navigator points to delete by
using Shift D twice.

* 12/12/16: Changed script selectors in Acquire at Points to combo boxes.

12/12/16: Removed fixed zoom/zoom step option from image level dialog and
moved cross checkbox into main part of window.

* 12/12/16: Added progress count and estimated time to completion to Navigator
window during acquire.

12/12/16: Fixed removing of IS and stage cals so they do not get saved with a
0 X component (In 3.5).

12/11/16: Fixed macro commands for limiting focus change and absolute focus
during autofocus to test even when not doing another iteration (In 3.5).

12/9/16: Stopped incorrect message about turning on "Use View in Low Dose"
when fitting montage to a polygon (In 3.5).

* 12/7/16: Allowed dummy instance to load map from file open in main instance.

12/7/16: Added optional delay factors to script commands that change
image shift to get settling before a camera shot.

12/7/16: Added script command to get a filename through a file chooser.

* 12/7/16: With a DMRotationAndFlip entry, the program will now change the
camera configuration automatically and restore it on exit, unless a
"SetRestoreDMRotFlip" property is set to do otherwise.  The size check now
occurs after this.  SizeCheckSwapped no longer needed for Gatan cameras.

* 12/7/16: Detected and corrected dark edges in drift-corrected images from
OneView camera.

12/7/16: Added script commands to report and set autofocus offset.

** 12/7/16: Linearized the dose rates from K2 electron counting images so that
they should match the linearized dose rate readout in DM.

12/7/16: Made beam intensity calibration routine try to compensate for lens
hysteresis.

12/6/16: Disabled force dark reference buttons for OneView (In 3.5).

12/2/16: Prevented problem with losing montage overview because of multiple
accesses to the mdoc file during background saving - needed in 3.5 only.

11/29/16: Made sure that when a new C2 aperture size is specified anywhere, it
gets saved in short-term calibrations (In 3.5).

** 11/27/16: Added an optional microscope control panel with mag, spot, beam,
and beam valve or filament control.

11/27/16: Added option to skip pieces instead of waiting at each piece when
precooking a montage; also made it move in zigzag.

* 11/27/16: Handled font changes properly for 144 DPI instead of imposing the
same ones as for 96 DPI, so 144 DPI should work OK.

11/22/16: Fixed crash if montage precooking is done when pieces are being
skipped (In 3.5).

11/22/16: Initialized the stage movement option in montage setup to ON if a
2x2 montage would exceed the image shift limit.

* 11/21/16: Enabled montage to be take with continuous mode images, added macro
command for testing or use.

11/21/16: Made camera timing routine do only startup delay for OneView (In
3.5).

* 11/16/16: Made it possible to use GIF on JEOL in LM; it no longer assumes
that it is not in EFTEM mode when in LM; and the EFTEM mode checkbox is and
enabled so the user can inform the program when the mode changes.

* 11/16/16: Converted Navigator files to autodoc format with an option to save
as XML instead.

11/16/16: Made it possible to use maps taken tilted, with a property to
control the allowed tilt angle difference before stage will be tilted to map
angle.

10/18/16: SEM_3-5-8
10/16/16: Fixed a crash when saving K2 frames without rotation and defect list
has adjacent bad pixels (In 3.5).

10/14/16: Made all message boxes be modal so program cannot be used when
they are up (In 3.5).

10/13/16: Added property to make beam intensity calibration favor doing
mag changes as is done with K2 camera (In 3.5).

10/10/16: Increased maximum log size from 2.6MB to 25MB (In 3.5).

10/7/16: Fixed Navigator looking for map file in same directory as Nav file
if map is not at its original path - in 3.5 this failed if file chooser was
used in another directory, in 3.6 it was fully broken by 9/11/16 change.

10/4/16: Added a delay before a mag change after acquiring an image from JEOL
STEM.

* 10/2/16 Added a command to divert script error messages from a message box to
the log, so that Navigator can go on to the next point automatically.

10/1/16: Added macro commands to report a time in seconds with msec precision,
to read from a text file into an array variable, and to run an external
process in the command shell.

9/30/16: Fixed saving of summed frames from K2 when there is more than one
frame in first sum (In 3.5).

9/26/16: Fixed several scripting bugs from starting to preserve case.

9/26/16: Made it suppress error and wait until stage ready when very slow
continuous tilting generates a COM error after 3 minutes.

9/26/16: Enable OneView drift correction in continuous mode since it seems to
work; fixed setting drift correction if BasicCorrections not defined (In 3.5).

9/25/16: Allowed currently selected Navigator point to be deleted with a
double click in Edit mode.

9/20/16: Enabled multiple script commands to be run between each frame when
using continuous mode in a script.

* 9/16/16: Frame sums for Falcon or K2 are now adjusted when exposure time
and number of frames change during a tilt series.

* 9/16/16: Fixed pixel size/area in Camera Setup to be correct for the area in
Low Dose mode.

9/16/16: Added tilt series policy option to end or stop series at high tilt
if intensity or exposure is being set for mean counts and gets too high.

* 9/16/16: Started reading the FalconConfig.xml to determine if frame-saving is
enabled, and changing it when that should work, thus eliminating the stupid
checkbox in Camera Setup.

* 9/16/16: Added Tilt Series menu option to keep number of saved frames
  constant as exposure changes for K2 camera

9/16/16: Added a script command SetExposureForMean, with an option to keep the
number of K2 saved frames constant.

* 9/11/16: Added a script command to start a tilt in the background and keep
running the script; for FEI scopes this requires new plugin/server with 4
socket connections and a temporary property setting, 'BackgroundSocketToFEI
1', to activate the 4th socket.

9/11/16: Made it restore the current working directory after a file chooser is
used.

* 9/11/16: Preserved case for all the text after the command in script
commands, so that filenames can be assigned to variables; also added a new
syntax (@=) for assigning text that may include spaces to variables.

9/8/16: Fixed handling of brightness/contrast so it can be adjusted separately
in the side-by-side FFT window (In 3.5).

* 9/6/16: Added Process menu items to set a fixed defocus for the rings drawn
in a live FFT, and to set a phase shift imposed by a phase plate, which will
be taken into account when relating FFT radii to defocus.

9/2/16: SEM_3-5-7
9/2/16: Made program offer to fix DM camera configuration when it is wrong
(In 3.5).

8/29/16: Fixed deadlock in mdoc file access when montaging created by 7/4/16
change.

8/26/16: Fixed problem when a montage is opened with a camera other than the
active one and program adjusts exposure time for a new binning (In 3.5).

8/24/16: Allowed starting spot size to be selected for spot intensity
calibration.

* 8/24/16: Made FFT's be taken automatically of single-frame images when
side-by-side windows is open; added menu option to control this.

8/24/16: Enabled drift settling with OneView when there is only one shutter
(In 3.5).

8/3/16: Fixed crash when exiting with side-by-side FFT window open (In 3.5).

8/3/16: Added ability to set stage speed to TiltDuringRecord command.  This
requires the latest FEI plugin/server.

8/2/16: Saved standard titles in single TIFF files and in first TIFF of an
.idoc numbered series.

* 7/28/16: Moved Tietz camera support to plugin.

7/27/16: Made it reinitialize scope connection when changing to an FEI camera
and there is more than one camera in TIA (In 3.5).

7/25/16: Fixed treatment of extrapolation past the end of an intensity
calibration (broken 3/7) and kept SetIntensity from going in the opposite
direction when trying to go from extrapolated to uncalibrated range (In 3.5).

7/18/16: SEM_3-5-6
7/11/16: Fixed uninitialized variable for DE that prevented first image from
being taken.  Added mag and focus value to output when use "autofocus" in LM
(In 3.5).

7/6/16: Fixed various places to handle images bigger than 2 GB or 2 gigapixel,
including making a montage overview (In 3.5).

7/4/16: Prevent accesses to autodoc files from multiple threads.

7/4/16: Go to low dose area before recording starting beam tilt for autofocus
when probe mode is changing (In 3.5).

6/29/16: Added property to set post-blanking delay in some situations.

6/29/16: In camera timing routine, added unblanking time to fitted value for
startup delay for STEM to avoid negative delays and used the right estimate
of startup delay when testing if reasonable.

6/29/16: Fixed problems accessing a map file while saving to file in
background when both are .idoc files (In 3.5).

6/19/16: Prevent numbered tiff output for bidirectional series, give more
output about blanking time and indicate to set property for STEM, fix
FrameAli2 macro commands for socket case.

5/26/16: Fixed astigmatism routine deciding that iteration did not improve the
result enough when one axis was already small or the result is good enough for
termination.

* 5/26/16: Implemented a special scaling of FFTs controlled by two more
parameters set with the Set Truncation button.

5/23/16: Eliminated added scaling of FFT's when they are zoomed below 1
(In 3.5).

5/18/16: Added macro commands for getting the index of the Navigator item with
a given label or note.

5/18/16: Made sure first eighth-size image of gain reference procedure was a
legal size for camera (In 3.5).

5/13/16: Added macro command for getting state of gun valve.

* 5/13/16: Moved JEOL support to new scope plugin.

5/13/16: Added property DarkRefMaxMeanOrSD to retake a dark reference if it
seems to have an image in it.

5/13/16: Fixed management of dark reference buttons in camera setup (In 3.5).

5/6/16: Fixed black images from non-K2 Gatan cameras with no countsPerElectron
set.

4/26/16: SEM_3-5-5
4/24/16: Added optional name for new log file to command SaveLogOpenNew.

4/24/16: Added script command to get an absolute time in minutes.

* 4/22/16: Added array variables to scripting.

4/22/16: Added more script capabilities for setting frame alignment parameters
to support timing tests.

4/22/16: Fixed loss of some changed text fields in Frame Alignment dialog when
spin buttons or parameter set selection are changed.

4/5/16: Added camera property TaskTargetSize to set the size that images will
be binned to for task operations with the given camera.

* 4/4/16: Macros are now referred to as scripts.

4/1/16: Fixed GPU memory leak in K2 frame alignment.

3/27/16: Removed support for FasTEM.

3/25/16: Made "Skip autofocus" in tilt series always available (In 3.5).

3/23/16: Built 64-bit version to work with 64-bit JEOL interface; requires
that TemExternal64 be installed (In 3.5).

3/15/16: Fixed two problem that could crash DM with K2 camera.

* 3/15/16: In macros, Report... and some other commands can now assign reported
values directly to named variables, and function arguments can be assigned
directly to named variables.  Added 20 macro commands to support automated K2
testing.

3/15/16: Fixed uninitialized variable that could prevent DE camera startup
(In 3.5).

3/7/16: SEM_3-5-4
* 3/7/16: Fixed taking K2 frames with binning when antialiasing is allowed in
plugin and there is an early return with no partial sum (In 3.5).

3/7/16: Made intensity calibration color indicator go orange when past end of
calibration and extrapolation is not allowed (In 3.5).

3/3/16: Prevented use of third shutter option with OneView camera (In 3.5).

3/3/16: In SerialEMCCD plugin, prevented wraparound when scaling float values
to integers and fixed rewriting of defect file when it is removed (in 3.5).

3/3/16: Fixed balancing halves for Orius in fast Continuous mode when
normalizing in DM (In 3.5).

3/3/16: Fixed return with Walk-Up losing its changed setting when
bidirectional anchor mag changed (In 3.5).

3/2/16: Made program keep track of a fake mag index and screen position and
display a mag in the scope status panel when running with NoScope set so that
images can have correct pixel sizes.  If counts per electron are defined, it
will also show dose at the camera in e/sq A in image display.

3/2/16: Added macro commands to turn low dose continuous update on and off,
and to send an email when a macro stops with an error.

3/2/16: Made camera timing work more reliably for cameras with NoShutter set
(In 3.5).

* 3/2/16: In SerialEMCCD plugin, fixed orientation of gain reference when gain
normalizing dark-subtracted summed images before returning them to SerialEM
(In 3.5).

2/26/16: Fixed crashes when DE COM module is not registered and when there are
no cameras initialized (In 3.5).

2/25/16: Made it select single TIFF file instead of series when saving single
image and series is the default or previous selection.

2/24/16: Added macro command to tilt during a Record shot.

2/21/16: Added ability to suppress warnings about FEI server being out of date
if changes are needed only for FEI cameras and there are none, or warning
about DM plugin being out of data if changes are useful only for K2 cameras.

2/21/16: Plugin to DM can save gain-normalized counting or super-resolution
frames with 100 times the usual scaling to prevent loss from truncation to
integers, which turned out to be tiny anyway.

** 2/21/16: Plugin to DM can now align frames with the same module used by
alignframes in IMOD, or write a command file for runnig alignframes in IMOD.

1/26/16: SEM_3-5-3
* 1/26/16: Fixed dynamic focus on JEOL, broken when SmoothFocusNextShot was
added (In 3.5).

12/24/15: Added ReportScreen macro command.

12/22/15: Allowed more than 20-fold intensity change for extra Records
(In 3.5).

12/21/15: Removed Align on save and Copy on save options from Buffer Control
panel; these were a trap for the unwary and can be done with macros (In 3.5).

12/9/15: Fixed how the name of the K2 reference to copy is generated from the
DMGainReferenceName entry when there is [kv] in the string (In 3.5).

12/9/15: Added query after adding grid of points in groups about whether to
keep the set of groups or try again.

* 12/9/15: Added find button to macro editor.

12/6/15: SEM_3-5-2
12/6/15: Made it save the fifth copy to buffer selection in settings.

12/6/15: Saved pixel size as resolution value in TIFF files.

12/5/15: Increased number of buffers to 20, with maximum rolling buffers still
at 14, to provide some protected buffers.

* 11/30/15: Made Navigator Acquire at Points close only the files that it has
opened, and close an opened file when it finishes.  Made it possible to have
one file for extra output opened and closed for each tilt series, using a
macro command.

** 11/29/15: Added calibration of magnification change and rotation caused by
being at a large underfocus, so that the stage calibration can be modified for
View images with a large defocus offset.  Made montaging and Navigator
operations use the modified stage calibration.

11/29/15: Fixed mouse shifting of montage overview (In 3.5).

* 11/27/15: Fixed handling of View shifts in Realign to Item (In 3.5).

11/23/15: Made View defocus offset spinner change by 2 above 20, 5 above 50,
and 10 above 100 (In 3.5).

11/23/15: Fixed corruption of Navigator table by Go To Marker caused by
preventing actions during stage moves (11/12/15 change) (In 3.5).

* 11/18/15: Changed from sampling to binning in montage overview to give better
image with noisy data.

* 11/18/15: Added second set of montage overlap correlation filter parameters,
a property to set them, and menu entries to select it unconditionally or only
in Low Dose mode, to divide filter parameters by 2, and to set parameter
values temporarily.

11/18/15: Added macro command to shift Navigator items assuming the current
one is centered.

11/17/15: Increased maximum number of mags to 120 for Titan Halo (In 3.5).

11/16/15: Fixed reading from montages with no .mdoc files (In 3.5).

11/16/15: Made RefineZLP macro command take an entry so that Refine ZLP can be
run only after an interval since the last time (In 3.5).

11/14/15: Added property to set filter parameters for montage correlations
(In 3.5).

11/12/15: Stopped updating the energy filter after the first continuous mode
shot (In 3.5).

11/12/15: Prevented starting a montage, autofocusing, and some other actions
whenever the stage is moving (In 3.5).

* 11/12/15: Fixed direction of backlash movement in stage calibration (In 3.5).

* 11/11/15: Added ability to run a macro at a defined point in a tilt series.

** 10/28/15: Added routines for astigmatism correction and coma-free alignment.

10/26/15: SEM_3-5-1
10/26/15: Fixed Realign to Item hanging in stage access on JEOL, broken by
nanoprobe changes 7/14/15 (In 3.5).

* 10/23/15: Changed Falcon frame stacking to handle case where not all frames
are there when the acquisition returns (i.e., support mode 40).

* 10/23/15: Added support for 16-bit raw frame files from Falcon (In 3.5).

10/21/15: Prevented user from opening montage setup in low dose mode if Record
or View is not set up (In 3.5).

10/21/15: Prevented montages from being taken with subarea frame sizes and K2
dose fractionation on (In 3.5).

10/14/15: Fixed crash when realigning to map made from image read from
file (In 3.5).

10/13/15: SEM_3-5-0
10/12/15: Added macro command to set beam tilt; made ReportImageShift give
unbinned image pixels.

10/8/15: Shifted all stored window positions so that windows will come up
fully on the current desktop.

10/7/15: Beta11 packaged
10/7/15: Fixed using wrong image to rotate by 90 degrees at end of
bidirectional series.

10/7/15: Fixed macro commands like SetExposure with a 0 for the set.

10/6/15: Made the defocus estimate show up when using Live FFT.

10/5/15: Beta10 packaged
* 10/5/15: Revised instructions for calibrating image shift and pixel size.

** 10/4/15: Made it give a defocus estimate and draw circles at CTF zeros when
the marker point is set in an FFT.

9/29/15: Prevented crash if background writing fails while montaging.

9/29/15: Fixed a problem with continuous mode setting when loading states.

9/29/15: Added macro menu item to list functions.

9/29/15: Fixed problems with antialising in plugin after EarlyReturn 0.

9/29/15: Fixed plugin reading gain reference after saving in mode 101.

* 9/22/15: Made points picked near seams of a montage map be displayed at the
locations clicked.

* 9/17/15: Made autosaving of Navigator files be on by default, with a one-time
message on startup when the option is turned off in an old settings file.

* 9/17/15: Added K2 frame saving options for saving unnormalized counting
frames as 4-bit and for using a new MRC mode 101 for 4-bit files.

9/17/15: Fixed freeing of K2 gain references when there are two DMs.

* 9/11/15: Added support for OneView camera, with fast continuous mode enabled
and gain normalization only in DM.

* 9/11/15: Fixed shutter not being kept open in continuous mode.

9/11/15: Fixed brief unblanking/reblanking before shot with NoShutter = 2.

9/11/15: Fixed focus screen chronically being considered in on JEOL scopes.

9/11/15: Fixed SetEucentricFocus macro to directly access correct value;
broken by probe mode addition.

9/11/15: Made SetAxisPosition macro keep the base position and net image shift
the same even when in Trial/Focus area.

9/11/15: Added macro command to report tilt axis offset from last refine
eucentricity.

9/11/15: Added tilt series menu item to save an X/Y/Z file automatically.

9/3/15: Made it copy alpha and beam shift and tilt offsets when copying one low
dose area to another.

8/30/15: Added separate lens normalization delay property for low mag, needed
on some Krios's.  Made stage/image shift calibration skip lens normalization
on second round and if macro command ShiftCalSkipLensNorm is given.

8/30/15: No longer offer to modify other image shifts after a calibration if
the change is large and either the old or new image shift calibration is very
asymmetric.

8/30/15: Prevent saving frames when doing a prescan montage.

8/30/15: It will now load files matching *Plugin*.dll from executable
directory so plugins can use VC90 libraries there; added command line argument
to specify alternative plugin path.

8/30/15: The blanker thread can now do post-actions as soon as an image is
received if the startup delay is longer than needed, so there is little penalty
for having an overly-long startup delay.

* 8/30/15: Whether frames are to be saved and K2 frame time are now saved as
part of an imaging state.

8/26/15: Fixed copying of K2 gain reference from SEMCCD plugin, broken in
beta8 version (8/7/15).

8/26/15: Added property CheckPosOnScreenError as workaround to errors moving
the screen on Titan.

8/14/15: Added macro commands to change axis position of Trial/Focus area and
to write to frame autodoc file.

8/12/15: Added version number to FEI scope plugin/server and startup messages
when this plugin or server, or SerialEMCCD plugin, need upgrading.

* 8/12/15: Made "Area to show when screen down" buttons go to area when screen
is up also.

8/9/15: Fixed problem with saving extra Records from simultaneously acquired
channels.

* 8/7/15: When dark-subtracted frames are being saved from K2, the plugin will
now return a gain normalized image.

* 8/4/15: Made scroll wheel zoom image window.

8/4/15: Fixed treatment of view shift offset in Realign to Item when staying
in Low Dose mode, made offsets work better when realigning to View then Preview
or Record maps, and relaxed requirements for staying in Low Dose, so that
current beam and image shifts and other settings can be used instead of those
used to take the map.

* 8/4/15: Added Tilt Series menu item to save a text file with X, Y, Z
positions during a tilt series.

7/29/15: Fixed initialization of center coordinate when adding a grid of
points inside a polygon at a specified spacing.

7/29/15: Fixed copying of probe mode setting when copying Low Dose area.

7/26/15: Added TietzCameraType 13 as new F816 type.

7/23/15: Fixed problem with using DigiScan after K2 with antialiasing in
plugin.

7/22/15: Added property to set waiting time per line when using Line sync with
DigiScan (In 3.4).

7/19/15: Added .map to file filter for opening old image files.

7/19/15: The K2 counting/super-res reference names no longer need to be set as
properties as long as the DMGainReferenceName is set; this works with 2 K2's.

7/19/15: Added macro command to save log and open a new log window.

* 7/14/15: Added support for nanoprobe mode in TEM on FEI scopes.  Many
calibrations are kept track of separately, and probe mode is stored as part of
low dose, map, and imaging states.

7/14/15: Added ability to specify cameras to drop from active list in command
line in shortcut, and to combine /DUMMY or this with a subfolder.

7/6/15: Fixed erroneous doubling of binning for tasks/lower mag camera
parameters (broken 6/24).

* 7/4/15: Added menu items to remove a single IS or stage calibration.  Added
question about forgetting a stage calibration when the matrix is not symmetric
enough.  Added a warning not to use whole image correlations at low mag if
there are grid bars in the field.

7/4/15: Changed default cycle length for stage calibrations to 40 microns for
non-FEI scopes.

* 7/4/15: Added an implicit forgetting of prior state when making an anchor map
or doing Realign from Item with restoration of state, so that each returns to
the existing set state instead of the prior state.

7/4/15: Fixed use of -1 with LongOperation commands.

6/29/15: Changed distortion pair acquisition routine to adjust stage move to
average of last three positions predicted from errors.

* 6/25/15: Added output of CCC values from image and stage shift calibrations,
added a query about forgetting a bad calibration, and made the offer to change
all other image shift matrices happen only once for a mag range.

6/25/15: Allowed the Focus Ramper to be used with the DigiScan on an FEI
scope.

* 6/24/14: Made plugin to DM able to do antialias reduction of images to be
passed back; added option to use antialias reduction for all binning, not just
super-resolution and dose-fractionation sums.

* 6/24/15: Added ability to save sums of frames of variable length from K2;
rewrote Falcon Frame Selector dialog to work in both cases and handle
specifications for many frames easily; tried to retain distribution of frames
in sums as exposure time or frame time is changes.

6/18/15: Fixed STOP button to work in continuous mode.

6/18/15: Enabled Unblank button in low dose panel even when not in low dose.

* 6/18/15: Realign to Item now stays in Low Dose if all map parameters match
the current mode parameters.

* 6/18/15: The axis position of the low dose focus area and the offset from
center of the focus camera parameters are now stored in the imaging state that
can be applied when opening a new file or starting a tilt series during
Navigator acquire.  Thus the focus area can be set for individual tilt
series.

6/16/15: Added option to Tilt Series Extra Output dialog to retain the file
with bidirectional anchor and add the image used to realign.

6/16/15: SEM_3-4-9
* 6/14/15: Made default extension for new files be .mrc, so it is not necessary
to type in this extension; .mrc will not be added to filenames that end in .st
or .map.

6/14/15: In FEI scope plugins, fixed return type of function for reporting if
scope is disconnected from server.

* 6/12/15: Added dose rate at camera to top of main image window for a direct
detector and and camera name if there are multiple cameras.  Added dose rate
at specimen to scope status panel.

* 6/12/15: Added side-by-side display of main window and FFT window (hot key
Shift S to toggle); FFT window is a stack of 4 rolling buffers.

6/12/15: Added ability to set number of digits in numbered frame filenames.

6/12/15: Prevented checks of various conditions before saving an image from
putting up message during a macro.

6/12/15: Macros: added commands ElectronStats to give image statistics and dose
rate in electrons, ErrorsToLog to make most error messages go to log and
FlashDisplay to flash the display yellow; set a reported value from
UserSetDirectory result.

6/7/15: Added WriteAutodoc command to fix writing of added values.

5/28/15: Fixed assignment of section numbers to montages broken on 5/25; fixed
the output of # of frames being saved with early return.

5/25/15: Enhancements to pixel size routine: added automatic setting of target
binned size based on expect number of blocks in waffle grating image, with
binned size going as low as 256; added analysis along line perpendicular to
line from origin to peak to eliminate diagonals and false peaks; fixed
over-trimming of binned images, especially for montages taken with
overview binning of 1; made found pixel sizes and rotations be saved in short
term calibrations with a lifetime of 24 hours; adjusted binning so block sizes
match between image and autocorrelation.

5/25/15: Made target binned size for image/stage shift calibrations be 1024
instead of 512 for direct detectors.

5/25/15: Fixed some display and other problems caused by using current
scope/camera settings instead of properties in a read-in image.

5/25/15: In Realign to Item, set spot size before instead of after intensity
because intensity values at end of range may be legal at one spot size but not
another on FEI scope.

5/25/15: Stopped giving message on startup about ScalingForK2Counts being 0.

5/24/15: Rewrote long operations to work properly with current plugin, do
sequence of scope operations and finish other operations if one error occurs,
and to ignore an error from refill refrigerant (provisionally).

5/24/15: Add menu entries to select use of trial binning or size while
running stage or image shift calibrations.

5/24/15: Added macro commands to set up a montage for finding pixel size,
to change mag if pixel size already found, and to reset defocus.  Fixed
KeyBreak.

5/15/15: Added macro commands to enter a number with given default value and
to test if a variable is defined.

5/13/15: Added NormalizeAllLenses macro command to call three different FEI
functions for normalizing "All" (requires plugin/server update).

5/12/15: Added macro command to add a key-value pair to last section of
current autodoc.

5/12/15: Fixed overwriting in .mdoc file when last section is overwritten,
which also screwed up extended header in bidirectional series (In 3.4).

5/11/15: Added message box on startup if K2 count scaling is near 1.

5/11/15: Added threshold for testing whether to abort autofocus after
inconsistent iterations, set with a second dialog box opened by Set Threshold
in the Focus menu.  Both thresholds are now settings.

5/11/15: Made camera controller tell AMT to turn on blanking when screen
raising is finished instead of waiting for scope update to do it.

5/7/15: Fixed file writing problem cause by adding MRC version number on
5/2/15.

5/7/15: Changed autofocus repeat above threshold so it happens for a threshold
set to >= 0.1 instead of only if it is > 1.

5/6/15: Fixed image shift calibration broken 3/25/15.

5/5/15: Fixed "change from previous" output of Find Pixel Size for K2.

4/29/15: Added macro command ReportAlignTrimming to get the borders applied in
the last autoalign.

* 4/29/15: Added macro command PreCookMontage to travel to each position of a
stage montage with the screen down.

4/28/15: Fixed SetPercentC2 and IncPercentC2 to work properly with illuminated
area values on Titan.

4/28/15: Made it restore mag index for read-in images instead of using current
mag; added mag index to .mdoc file so it can be done unambiguously.

4/28/15: Added property to make List Mags work right when there are disabled
LM mags on a JEOL, and prevented attempted image shift compensations during
List Mags.

4/28/15: Fixed crash when autofocus is done on tilted specimen with internal
binning for direct detectors.  Added menu item to see the image that is
stretched to compensate for specimen tilt.  Fixed the equations for the
stretch compensation.  Made all routines on existing focus images use
parameters of read-in images instead of current scope conditions.

* 4/18/15: Made it normalize condenser when going in and out of LM mode.  On
FEI scope, changed function to normalize condenser so that it normalizes all
condenser lenses, not just spot size.  THIS REQUIRES PLUGIN/SERVER UPDATE.

4/15/15: Made it not put scope in STEM mode on JEOL if there is only a GIF
camera and the scope is not in EFTEM mode.

4/2/15: Improved division of added points into groups by making group
boundaries aligned with the axes of the polygon.

3/25/15: Added a weighting factor for the second round of Realign to Item that
decreases with distance from zero shift, with a sigma of 3 microns; this is to
avoid aligning to the wrong hole.

* 3/25/15: Macros can now contain defined functions.

3/21/15: Macro changes: Added a SkipTo command to jump forward to a labeled
line; added parentheses in arithmetic, function, and IF expression evaluation,
made command listing and completion work when typing command indented with
spaces.  Added functions NEARINT, ROUND, POWER, ABS.

3/20/15: Fixed minimum autofocus binning for K2 to use the value specified,
not half of it.

* 3/18/15: Made current or selected Navigator point items show up in a
highlight color and allowed Draw to be used to toggle group draw on and off
when groups are collapsed.

3/18/15: Improved division of added points into groups by making first point
really be in the middle of the actual points in the group.

* 3/17/15: Turned on default file option to save .mdoc file if there is direct
detector.

* 3/13/15: Added ability to set suffix for files saved by the DE server with
the frame saving properties dialog.

3/13/15: For DE cameras, switched the HDF5 option to MRC if the server version
supports it, switched to saving the sum of raw frames instead of all frames
when the option is selected to do so when taking the gain reference.

3/12/15: Turn off frame-saving for re-imaging a map area and make sure that
this state and continuous mode are restored in whatever parameter set is used
for that.

3/11/15: Added properties to use a socket server only when running a 64-bit
version.

3/11/15: Modified install.bat to copy FEI scope plugin whenever FEI software
is detected and ask about doing so when no scope software is detected.  The
program installed this way from a 3.5 beta package will run through the plugin
even on the FEI computer, but does not require the server in that case.

* 3/10/15: Added section to the frame saving properties dialog to control
folder and files names for saved frames from K2 or Falcon, with automatic new
folder creation possible for each tilt series.  This requires a DM plugin
upgrade via a beta installation package.

* 3/12/15: Added ability to have points put into multiple groups with "Add Grid
of Points", with the first one in the middle for focusing on.

3/4/15: Added delay between starting screen movement and tilt in specimen
cooker and property to adjust it.

2/26/15: Prevented K2 frame saving setup from being called twice when there is
settling.

2/24/15: Added special option to make sure View area is passed through before
autofocusing.

2/22/15: Allowed Realign to Item to run with continuous mode images with a
macro argument; added macro commands for reporting continuous mode and
controlling settling time after shifts in continuous mode.

2/16/15: Prevented continuous mode from being used for images taken in tasks
and tilt series; added special setting in the Tasks menu to allow continuous
acquisitions to be started in tilt series.

2/16/15: Add macro commands for setting continuous mode and using continuously 
acquired frames in a controlled way.  Also made all camera "Set" commands take
parameter set letters as well as numbers and allowed multiple parameter sets
to be modified and restored.

* 2/9/15: Pixel sizes can be measured at very low mag from grid bar spacing,
using a menu entry to set the grid mesh size.

* 2/9/15: Hitachi HT7700 microscope is now supported through a plugin.

* 2/9/15: Added a calibration of the beam shift needed to align spots,
primarily for Hitachi, but it may be useful elsewhere.

2/9/15: Fixed computation of fallback pixel size with K2 and listing of IS
vectors using the fallback.

* 2/8/15: Stage montages are now done in a zigzag pattern, up one column and
down the next, if the overlap in Y is at least 20 microns.

* 2/8/15: Many operations, including tasks and tilt series, can now be done
on non-FEI scopes with Brightness Zoom or its equivalent turned on.

2/8/15: SEM_3-4-8
2/8/15: Fixed decision on whether image shift is too small to reset by
using actual calibrated conversion to microns if possible (In 3.4).

2/8/15: Transferred image metadata to processed images (In 3.4).

1/31/15: Fixed some things that would not work correctly when running FEI
through plugin, including using diffraction in LAD mode (In 3.4).

1/25/15: Fixed uninitialized rotation angles.

1/25/15: Added macro command ProgramTimeStamps to get a message like program
startup message but with current time.

1/19/15: On JEOLs updating by event, eliminated stage check before every image
acquisition that was taking 0.25 second.

1/19/15: Fixed keeping pixel time constant when changing STEM binning.

* 1/19/15: Added Focus menu options for testing filter parameters, for
setting a binning for processing autofocus images from direct detectors, and
for listing calibrations.  Added introductory and troubleshooting page on
autofocus.

* 1/17/15: Implemented asynchronous stacking of Falcon frames, so other
operations and non-frame images can proceed, and a frame can be read in and
transferred from server while previous frame is being written.

1/8/15: Made skip beam shift work for reset image shift in tilt series.

* 1/4/15: Added option to save raw frames while acquiring the gain reference
for a DE camera.

1/4/15: Made it possible to convert a Gatan camera error into a timeout for
retrying using same MakeFEIerrorBeTimeout property as for FEI cameras.

* 12/24/14: Made new versions of plugin and server for accessing FEI
microscopes with 3 socket connections; they support image acquisition from
Eagle, Falcon, and STEM detectors and allow Falcon intermediate frames to be
saved from a remote computer.  The plugin alone will also provide the sole
route for accessing the scope when SerialEM is running on the scope computer.

12/9/14: Added item to Tasks - Special Settings menu to disable automatic
trimming of dark borders in selected cases.

* 12/9/14: Kept the beam blanker open during fast continuous acquisition from a
camera with NoShutter = 1 property, and fixed blanking on program startup with
NoShutter set.

12/9/14: SEM_3-4-7
12/6/14: Made it give a message and not modify system path in settings file if
it has to fall back to system properties file.

12/6/14: Made sure binning is legal before taking image.

12/6/14: Reduced a delay in turnaround with continuous acquisition.

12/6/14: Error strings are now fetched from the remote FEI server and
included in messages from SerialEM.

* 12/6/14: Give just one good message when remote FEI server is closed before
SerialEM and allow graceful exit; reconnecting also works.

12/6/14: Fixed DM plugin for saving MRC files > 2 GB and for returning a DM
gain reference after ending continuous acquire (In 3.4 package).

11/27/14: Added macro command UserSetDirectory to let user pick a new current
directory, also a command ReportBeamTilt.

* 11/27/14: Added an optional section to scope status panel for intensity and
stage position.

11/27/14: Changed maximum GIF energy loss to 3000 (In 3.4).

* 11/25/14: Made it possible to define two non-LM mag ranges for JEOL,
controlled by property LowestSecondaryModeMag.

11/23/14: Fixed bug in how a new mag image shift offset calibration is merged
into previous calibrations at the bottom end (In 3.4).

11/22/14: Modify 10/10/13 fix of Low Dose with projector shifts so that the
image/beam shift is always done at the mag of a trial/focus area when leaving
or going to one; otherwise it is done at the higher mag (In 3.4).

11/21/14: Added Navigator menu item Force Center Align to keep Realign from
Item from skipping the first round alignment to map center.

11/16/14: Added macro command ReportEnergyFilter to get filter settings;
and commands SetAbsoluteFocus and ReportAbsoluteFocus as clearer synonyms for
SetFocus and ReportStandardFocus.

11/12/14: Added PluginPath property to set directory for plugins.

11/12/14: Added macro commands FocusChangeLimit and AbsoluteFocusLimit to set
limits for autofocusing done in the macro.

* 11/8/14: Made it possible to load a frame of the montage map that a point was
drawn on by double-clicking the point or pressing the Load button.

** 11/8/14: Added an Edit Mode to Navigator in which one can select, add and
move points with the 3 mouse buttons as in 3dmod.

* 11/8/14: Made it possible to reuse the spacing and orientation set by running
Add Grid of Points with 5 points, and add a new grid with just one point.
Also made grids be added at regularly spaced image rather than stage
coordinates.

11/7/14: SEM_3-4-6
(Packages include new version of DM plugin to support fast continuous
acquisition, compatible with 3.5 beta).

11/6/14: Changed default tapering for correlation in autoalignment and
autofocus to 0.1 (In 3.4).

11/6/14: Excluded extra output stack from being considered the active window
for Process menu operations (In 3.4).

* 10/31/14: Added ability to select current Navigator item by clicking near it
with the mouse (with Ctrl-Left click).

10/31/14: Changed Ctrl-Left and Right mouse button to zoom up and down around
the mouse position, and moved the zoom up to Ctrl-Middle.

10/26/14: When displaying an image with antialias reduction, boost the contrast
to give an SD of 40, since noisy images lose contrast.

10/25/14: Switched to static build of FEI-SEMserver.exe so it runs without
dependencies that are missing on some systems (In 3.4).

10/25/14: Made plugin to DM able to save unaligned K2 frames when image
alignment is selected in GMS 2.3.1, as it did previously.  Also fixed a
problem that may have slowed down frame saving with early return (In 3.4).

10/25/14: Fixed plugin to DM to set the right version number for GMS 2.0 and
2.1, so that it would not run ancient camera commands (In 3.4).

* 10/25/14: Added a stage move tool window that allows moving stage in any
direction by a chosen multiple of the camera frame size; it can be opened from
the Window menu.

** 10/24/14: Added ability to have fast continuous mode acquisition from Gatan
cameras.  It will be used by default for Orius and K2 (with good frame rates)
and for US4000 and US1000 (with only a slight speedup), activated by property
UseContinuousMode otherwise.

10/19/14: Swapped meaning of "up" and "down" in macro editor so it matches
the direction that macro moves in toolbar or menu.

10/12/14: Made macro toolbar width adjust to fit names.

10/12/14: Added macro command SetTargetDefocus.

10/9/14: Disable "Align to image in buffer A" in tilt series if mag does not
match series mag, or it is not a valid low dose area for aligning to.

10/9/14: Added macro command SetCenteredSize to set a parameter set to a given
binning and size; fixed problem with SetCameraArea for K2; added command
ImageLowDoseSet to report what low dose set would match an image; added
ForceCenterRealign to keep Realign to Item from skipping first round.  Also
made ReadFile able to read to specific buffer.

10/9/14: Added menu item to merge a Navigator file in with the current items.

10/9/14: SEM_3-4-5
10/9/14: Made bidirectional series return to starting angle with steps when
first part ends on a dim image, even if Walk Up is selected.  Also made return
steps larger for JEOL (10 degrees) (In 3.4).

10/3/14: Fixed problems with using Skip Beam Shift on Align for bidirectional
series, made it work for all reverse tilt operations during series.

10/1/4: Added macro command to change STEM detectors.

9/17/14: Changed montage piece alignment to use new routine shared with
Blendmont, added 2-pixel border as is used there.

9/12/14: Fixed SetExposure command so drift really is optional (In 3.4).

9/12/14: Improved initial white level when displaying autocorrelations.

* 9/12/14: Added ability to use pixel size routine with catalase crystals.

9/11/14: Fixed loss of reference in bidirectional series with return by walkup
and fixed problem with stopping during a walkup return (In 3.4).

8/31/14: Added a delay after mag change for Falcon, controlled by property
FalconPostMagDelay, to keep Dose Protector from responding to transient
conditions.

8/31/14: Fixed vulnerability of timeout system to tick clock wrapping around
every 57 days.

8/21/14: Had to switch the alpha change to happen first at higher mag, not
higher alpha; there is still a vulnerability if two modes with different
alpha are in a lower mag range.

8/14/14: Made alpha change happen before mag change when going to lower
alpha and after when going to higher, since scope may impose alpha-dependent
beam shift during the mag change.

8/14/14: SEM_3-4-4
8/5/14: Made it able to use piezo positioner instead of image shift for shift
to Trial/Focus area in Low Dose.

* 7/22/14: Made it record alpha value for maps in low dose mode and change
alpha and apply alpha-dependent beam shift/tilt calibration when realigning to
such a map or using it for anchor map state.  Made it also able to apply the
difference in the user's added beam shift and tilt between View and Record
when aligning to a map taken in View mode; this is enabled by property 
RealignItemUseBeamOffsets.

7/21/14: Added general support for plugins controlling piezo positioners, and
added macro commands for selecting, reporting, and moving piezos.

7/21/14: Added macro command KeyBreak for breaking a loop on a key press.
 
* 7/21/14: Made beam shift calibrations alpha-specific for JEOL.

7/17/14: Fixed treatment of Falcon intermediate frame config file if the
starting file gets everything onto one line and changed dummy directory for
shots without frames to be on S:\ so the directory doesn't get created
(In 3.4).

7/15/14: Fixed plugins for GMS2 64-bit when there is no K2 camera (In 3.4).

7/7/14: Allowed OnlyOneShutter property to be used to specify pre- or
post-specimen shutter for Eagle camera (1 or -1).

6/25/14: SEM_3-4-3
6/25/14: Increased timeout on reset image shift (In 3.4).

6/19/14: Fixed "Encountered an improper argument" error when starting tilt
series from Acquire at Points with Realign to Item selected (In 3.4).

6/17/14: SEM_3-4-2
6/16/14: Increased wait for stage ready in reset image shift (In 3.4).

6/13/14: Allowed Space key to turn off continuous acquire but not restart
camera acquire during a task/tilt series (In 3.4).

6/11/14: Prevented warning about SAMAG mode on JEOL when it is in STEM mode on
startup (In 3.4).

6/11/14: SEM_3-4-1
6/10/14: In bidirectional series, saving of new image in second half fails if
a large amount of file hasn't been copied yet, so switched to finishing the
copy synchronously before tilting to the first angle (in 3.4).

6/10/14: In plugin, fixed full-sized images being acquired when switching away
from K2 to other camera and prevented failure of dose frac shots saving a
single frame (In 3.4).

6/9/14: Fixed disabling of anchor options in initial actions when
bidirectional option is selected (In 3.4).

6/8/14: Made it possible for plugin functions to be called at defined points
in a tilt series.

* 6/7/14: Added option to save K2 frames without rotation/flip (In 3.4).

6/7/14: Had to send rotation/flip to plugin for K2 dose-frac shots that don't
save frames for GMS 2.3.1, which requires new plugin version (In 3.4).

6/7/14: When setting low dose area on FEI scope, set spot size again after
setting mag in case it changes bwteen LM and nonLM (In 3.4).

6/6/14: Fixed EFTEM mode being turned on due to initial camera setting before 
pixel sizes/rotations are set up (In 3.4).

6/4/14: Fix enabling Set C2 Factor, normalizing beam for calibrating dose with
gain reference, and numerous STEM-related items to behave right for FEI scope
accessed through plugin (In 3.4).
 
6/3/14: Fix crash on Save Single with no image, disable menu item (In 3.4).

5/29/14: SEM_3-4-0
5/29/14: Added a property TSEarlyK2RecordReturn to allow tilt series Record
images to return early, with a full sum, when saving K2 frames (only for 
GMS 2.3.1 or higher).

5/28/14: Made it restore beam tilt as well as beam shift when alpha changes
between low dose areas on JEOL.  The Alpha beam shift calibration needs to be
redone to record the proper beam tilt change.

5/28/14: Fixed loss of images and jumbling of .mdoc when restacking of first
part of bidirectional series in background.

** 5/26/14: Changes for K2 support: For GM 2.3.1, modified plugin to use new
API for dose-fractionation images and to make DM acquire frames into RAM when
possible (as controlled by a SerialEM property K2MaxRAMStackGB).  For all GMS,
made frame-saving run in a thread to provide truly asynchronous operation and
not block the DM interface; added ability to return as soon as possible with
no sum or a partial sum and take new images during frame-saving, accessed with
the macro command EarlyReturnNextShot; linked with version 4 of libtiff in
order to write TIFF files > 2 GB.

5/26/14: Made List Relative Rotations give a line when there is no rotation.

5/26/14: Made sure that corners would be reached properly in a full grid
montage if the StageLimits property is set to access the full +/-1200 micron
range on a JEOL; clarified help to indicate that the property is needed.

5/23/14: Enabled setting added beam tilt for View as well as Trial/Focus.

5/23/14: Kept track of whether mouse shifting moves the stage when setting a
View offset and added a message box with instructions if this happens.

5/23/14: Stopped turning off Low Dose mode when montaging is on and a camera
is selected that can't be used to take a montage into that file.

5/23/14: Fixed crash from showing montage overview with > 256 pieces, made it
reduce overview binning correctly when memory is limited and not converting to
bytes; fixed overview size so conversion to bytes does minimize memory use.

5/14/14: Automatically detected if display is 120 DPI or not; DisplayIsNot120
should no longer be needed.

5/14/14: Fixed starting focus for step focus/dynamic focus with a plugin
scope.

5/11/14: Changed Realign to Item in Low Dose mode so that it aligns the
feature for the mag of either View or Record, depending on whether View is
being returned to, or if Acquire at Points is being run to capture a montage
with View images.

* 5/10/14: Added ability to fetch a pixel defect list from DM and merge it with
defect list from properties; isolated defect-correction code so it can be
shared with Clip in IMOD for post-processing defect correction.

5/2/14: Made field of view output for bidirectional series show up in bold
with stars when below a criterion size; added property TSBidirAnchorMinField
to set thresholds for this; made output correct when using View in Low Dose.

5/2/14: Made SetEucentricFocus use value for nearest calibrated mag in nonLM,
and issue a warning on FEI scopes if the value is not for the current mag.

5/1/14: Fixed setting dose rate with divide by 2 on and dose rate output in
camera setup window for non-K2 camera.

5/1/14: Changed absolute focus value on JEOL to range from 2 to 2050 in order
to store and go back to the specific coarse and fine values; when using an old
number between 0 and 1, set fine value near middle not bottom of range. 

4/30/14: Fixed leakage of autocentering intensity into Focus parameters when
in Low Dose.

* 4/29/14: Macro changes: added menu items to save all macros to a file or to
load multiple macros back from a file (which can be a settings file); added
buttons to the macro editor to shift a macro up or down in the list of macros;
made it possible to open an editor for an existing macro by Ctrl-clicking on
its button in the macro toolbar or Camera & Macro Control panel; added line to
editor showing some possible completions of a command as it is being typed.

4/28/14: Fixed enabling of autocenter beam menu item in Low Dose mode.

* 4/28/14: Added property FrameMdocForFalcon to allow saving metadata for
Falcon images when frames are captured with the Falcon Hack.

4/28/14: Made the Low Dose mode checkbox stay on during Realign to Item 
and prevented beam from being unblanked when actually leaving low dose at
start of procedure.

4/15/14: SerialCCD plugin detects when there are two copies loaded and gives a
big warning.

* 4/15/14: Added File menu item to open an .mdoc file for saving metadata
about every image acquisition that saves frames from a direct detector.

4/13/14: Fixed crash in acquire at points when groups are collapsed and no
file is open.

* 4/12/14: Made Realign to Item keep track of parameters from first round
alignment so it can skip it if same frame is aligned to within a time
interval (see properties RealignItemSkipCenTime and RealignItemSkipCenError).

* 4/12/14: Autofocus will now stop iterating and return to original focus 
if it oscillates or behaves inconsistently.

* 4/12/14: Added menu item to set dose rate for direct detectors.

4/9/14: Fixed montager trying to rewrite .mdoc during background save.

4/8/14: Added support for Tietz F216 camera, TietzCameraType 12.

* 4/8/14: Report dose rate per unbinned pixel for all direct detectors.

4/8/14: Allowed Terminate entry to be used to terminate first part of
bidirectional series.

3/25/14: Added check on JEOL for SAMAG versus MAG on startup.

3/20/14: Fixed inappropriate timeouts of background saves.

3/14/14: Allowed SmoothFocusNextShot to be used with Falcon.

2/28/14: Added DateTime to .mdoc for each image.

* 2/28/14: Turned on background saving by default, it can be disabled with
property "BackgroundSaveToFile 0".

2/27/14: Fixed using Walkup with View for tilt series and fixed angle at which
walkup anchor is saved for Walkup with View with post-actions on (In 3.3).

2/21/14: Fixed 64-bit DM plugin to write files bigger than 2 GB.

* 2/15/14: Made extra Records be overwritten appropriately just as regular
records are, so there will be no extra extra Records.

2/15/14: Added BadPixels property for correcting single pixel defects.

** 2/15/14: Added bidirectional tilt series from arbitrary starting angle.
There is a new item in the batch tilt series policy dialog that controls
whether the series will automatically quit one direction and start the other
when an image is too dim at high tilt.

2/5/14: Saved Acquire flag to Navigator file.

* 2/5/14: Made new maps and Navigator items picked on images or maps have Z
position of image instead of current Z.

2/5/14: Added mdoc entries for stage Z and image divided by 2.

2/4/14: Changes to autocenter setup in low dose mode, primarily to keep the
intensity setting from being lost if the screen is dropped.

2/4/14: SEM_3-3-2
2/4/14: Install package has separate plugins for GMS 2.0-2.2 versus 2.3 and
higher, and installer asks which is installed to copy the right one (In 3.3).

2/4/14: Keep screen up when reopening autocenter setup dialog after test
acquire in Low Dose mode to preserve intensity (In 3.3).

1/26/14: Added SaveFocus and RestoreFocus macro commands to save a focus value
that is restored when macro stops or ends.

1/26/14: Added macro commands to start K2 hardware dark reference update and
other long-running operations without hanging the user interface.

1/26/14: Fixed enabling of macro buttons in control panel (In 3.3).

1/24/14: Added property JeolIndexForMagMode to allow the program to be used in
SAMAG instead of MAG mode.

* 1/24/14: Added property DMRotationAndFlip to protect against the camera
configuration not being correct.

1/15/14: Added macro call IsPVPRunning.

1/12/14: Added ability to start a second instance with no scope or camera
initialization with the command line argument /DUMMY.

1/12/14: Added macro command to report if low dose is on.

1/12/14: Made DE camera keep protection cover open during continuous acquire.

12/19/13: Disabled Set Intensity menu item in STEM mode (In 3.3).

12/9/13: Avoid setting low dose area multiple times when autofocusing.

12/9/13: Go to low dose area before starting autofocus on a scope with alpha
since beam tilt can change  (In 3.3).

* 12/7/13: Extra Record output from tilt series can now be montaged.

* 12/6/13: Allowed maps in LM to be used for Realign to Item if the camera
field of view is small enough; the limit is set by property
RealignItemMaxLMField.

12/5/13: Only turn off beam on JEOL if filament current is non-zero.

12/5/13: Added property DMAlignZLPCriteria to set the criteria for detecting
if Align ZLP is run in DM.

12/4/13: Added macro command SmoothFocusNextShot to allow a focus ramp to be
imposed during the next exposure.

12/4/13: Added property K2SynchronousSaving to disable the new asynchronous
frame saving.

* 12/2/13: Reorganized the Calibrate menu with submenus, moved Find Pixel Size
and associated entries from Process menu to a Calibrate submenu.

12/2/13: Fixed crashes from opening new file at group in Navigator (In 3.3).

11/30/13: Made Low Dose continuous update have no effect when omega filter
is in spectroscopy mode.

* 11/30/13: Switched stage and image shift calibrations to use the autoalign
routine, evaluate many peaks, and reject a peak at 0,0.  Stage calibrations are
done with whole image correlations by default to catch problems with rotation
angles.

* 11/30/13: Added some protections against image shift from scratch and stage
calibrations being done with seriously incorrect pixel size estimates.

11/30/13: Pixel size and relative rotation measurements are now kept track
of separately for each camera, List Relative Rotations will output complete
RotationAndPixel lines, and a menu entry can be used to adjust a relative
rotation by a multiple of 90 degrees.

11/30/13: Added menu entry to set cycle length for stage calibrations
temporarily.

* 11/30/13: Added ability to run preliminary macro in Acquire at Points for
all kinds of acquisitions; keep track of this choice and email choice
separately tilt series and other tasks.

* 11/30/13: Put macro names in Macro menu, moved Run commands to a Run submenu,
and added macros 11-20.  Added a command LongName to give a longer name
that will show up here if defined; otherwise the regular name shows up.

11/25/13: Allowed slit width to go to minimum value on JEOL (In 3.3).

11/16/13: Fixed test for stage in same position as moved to on JEOL (In 3.3).

* 11/13/13: Plugin to DM will now save K2 frames while stack is being prepared,
saving ~0.75 sec/super-resolution frame.

11/4/13: Fixed Falcon button showing up in DE panel and problems with the
K2 frame-saving summary line.

* 11/2/13: Made a new dialog for setting file saving options for K2 subframes;
TIFF compression can be selected here, as well as saving raw frames packed;
these are now both user settings.

10/31/13: If area is undefined when going to an initial low dose area, beam
shifts and view offsets are imposed as if coming from Record (In 3.3).

10/30/13: Tested for whether a dose-fractionation image returned from K2 has
the right size, prevented crash and added error message.

10/24/13: Fixed saving of divide by 2 setting (In 3.3).

10/23/13: Restored Load/UnloadCartridge macro commands.

10/23/13: Fixed crash when changing Falcon exposure time and there are no
subframes set up.

10/23/13: Fixed blank line in log after every DE12 image.

10/21/13: Added property for testing saving of K2 frames as compressed TIFF
files.

10/16/13: Fixed disappearence of "Save frames" button for K2.

* 10/14/13: Made a plugin to SerialEM and a server to allow SerialEM to run on
a 64-bit computer and connect to an FEI microscope.  Released a beta package
with a 64-bit version of SerialEM and this plugin and server.

10/14/13: Fixed memory leaks of strings in DE-12 code and when saving
subframes with any camera type.

10/13/13: Added experimental property TSSkipBeamShiftOnAlign to suppress the
beam shifts that accompany image shifts during tilt series on JEOL (for phase
plate work).

10/10/13: Took account of constraints on exposure times with direct detectors
when deciding whether to take a binned image with reduced exposure in tasks
and tracking, and when reducing the exposure time for Refine ZLP.

10/9/13: Constrained exposure time properly for DDD when deciding whether to
increase binning for a task, amd when reducing exposure further for safety
factor on mag change (In 3.3). 

10/9/13: Fixed a test for whether Reverse Tilt is needed (In 3.3).

10/9/13: When changing low dose area and using PLA for IS on the JEOL, do
image shift for area offset at lower mag instead of higher to avoid setting
out of range shifts (In 3.3).

* 10/5/13: When there are two non-GIF cameras and "Match pixel size" is
selected, it will now return to the initial camera before exiting so that the
mag is appropriate when restarting.

** 10/4/13: Many changes for DE camera: 
 * fixed various bugs leading to crashes and some memory leaks and
 standardized error handling;
 * implemented divide by 2 when selected; 
 * added camera property AlsoInsertCamera to insert another camera first to
 blank beam properly;
 * switched rotations to using fast rotate-flip routine;
 * Moved selection of frame-saving to camera setup dialog, made it
 independently selectable for each parameter set and saved as user settings;
 * Integrated insertion/retraction into the regular logic used for all other
 cameras, and added a camera property SamePhysicalCamera to specify that a
 survey sensor is part of the same camera
 * Revamped the Direct Electron control panel with much fewer stuff, almost
 all of it in an Options section, and eliminated the separate dialog.  Made
 all controls return focus to the main window so hot keys work, and disabled
 items as appropriate
 * It should work to configure the survey sensor as another camera
 * Enabled drift settling for the DE-12 cameras as long as OnlyOneShutter is
 not set.
 * The frames per second for DE-12 and survey sensor and the file saving
 format are now saved as user settings; the initial protection cover mode and
 protection delay and temperature setpoint can be set as general properties
 (DEProtectionCoverOpen, DEProtectionCoverDelay, DETemperatureSetpoint).
 * Kept track of values sent to server and only sent values again when they
 change, so repeated shots with the same parameters take about 600 ms less;
 * Managed the protection cover so that it opens before all tasks and routines
 that take images and closes at the end.  This is not done for macros unless a
 command OpenDECameraCover is given.
 * Saved selected metadata from the DE camera in the .mdoc file, as well as
 the path and number of raw or summed frames saved
 * Informed DE server when gain reference images are being taken so it can
 save a copy
 * Made it not get all properties on startup unless debug output D is on,
 saving ~4 seconds.
 * Subareas are no longer constrained to be centered
 * Camera name is no longer fixed by the camera type but must match the name
 configured in the server.

9/29/13: Subareas are no longer constrained to be centered for Tietz cameras
with geometry settings that specify a +/-90 degree rotation (untested).

9/29/13: Modified rotation and flipping routine to use same speed trick as in
the DM plugin for rotating K2 images, so rotations for STEM images and K2 dose
fractionation images will be faster.

10/4/13: Added property FocusPostTiltDelay to set a delay between tilting beam
and taking next image.

9/26/13: Added macro calls AreDewarsFilling, DewarsRemainingTime, and
RefrigerantLevel to report states of a temperature control system.

9/26/13: Added macro calls SetObjectiveStigmator and ReportObjectiveStigmator.

* 9/6/13: Added macro command DeferStackingNextShot so that Falcon frames from
multiple exposure can be accumulated into one stack.  General properties
FalconFrameConfigFile and FalconFrameConfigFile enable and control the frame
saving.

9/3/13:  SEM_3-3-1
9/3/13: Plugin to DM changed to take images reliably from DigiScan without big
ExtraShotDelay; it also processes the data types produced by the K2 camera in
all situations properly (In 3.3).

* 9/1/13: Falcon frames are now written to an MRC stack and deleted.
Normalization in SerialEM is disabled and images are normalized in FEI
software when frame-saving is turned on.

8/30/13: Added ability to specify full or partial bad rows to correct, just
like columns.

8/28/13: Fixed crash if Acquire button used in setup dialog, acquire fails,
and there is no image in program yet (In 3.3).

8/28/13: Added macro command OpenFrameSumFile to open a file whose name starts
with the date-time used for the last frames saved from K2 camera.

* 8/28/13: Added ability to control the saving of intermediate frames from the
Falcon camera.

* 8/28/13: Constrained exposure times for Falcon and DE-12 cameras to multiple
of frame time; display constrained times (for K2 Base too) with rounding in
setup dialog.

* *8/25/13: Added ability to set the direction of tilt beam for autofocusing
with Set Tilt Direction in Focus menu and macro command BeamTiltDirection.

8/22/13: Made Try Again from Marker retain the black/white setting (In 3.3).

* 8/22/13: Made it possible to run at multiple voltages with a single settings
file by specifying the subfolder with the system files as an argument in the
shortcut (In 3.3).

8/20/13: The program can now start up with a plugin microscope and call
functions from it in place of its regular calls to FEI or JEOL scopes.

* 8/20/13: Add a macro command StepFocusNextShot to change focus during an
exposure, for use with the K2.

* 8/13/13: Added an option to save dose-fractionation frames without gain
normalization from K2 as 4-bit data packed into bytes in super-resolution
mode, or as bytes in counting mode, with a current gain reference saved with
the data.  Also made all combinations of mode and processing be processed
correctly by the plugin.

8/3/13: Added a MODULO macro function (In 3.3).

7/27/13: On JEOL, prevented different focus imposed by scope in View mode mag
from being imposed on Focus/Record mags during a tilt series (In 3.3).

7/27/13: Increased default threshold for detecting reversals in tilting to 0.2
degress on JEOL and made TSMaxTiltError set a minimum for this threshold 
(In 3.3).

7/26/13: Fixes for JEOL EFTEM mode: different rough scale for IS calibration,
separate beam shift cal, retain image shift when going in and out of mode,
handle neutral values correctly (In 3.3).

7/26/13: Made sure image shift reset at startup does not happen until JEOL
state data are good (In 3.3).

7/6/13: Made sure a GIF camera was selected when upper camera not marked as
retractable (In 3.3).

7/3/13: Prevented crash when insufficient memory for rotating K2 image
(In 3.3).

6/26/13: Fixed bug that made it impossible to enter an axis position in Low
Dose panel when area is Undefined; made area undefined every time low dose is
turned back on; disabled many computations in low dose if an image shift
or other transformation matrix is not defined (In 3.3).

6/21/13: SEM_3-3-0
6/19/13: Made timout for DE12 and Falcon cameras not depend on binning.

6/19/13: Made program try to restore original shutter setting for Eagle camera
when exiting.

6/19/13: Fixed displays of magnification when states are saved with different 
Low Dose Record mags for multiple tilt series.

6/3/13: Fixed size of dose-fractionation image displayed in SerialEM with
counting mode binning 1 to be same as regular image.

6/3/13: Fixed binning output by ImageProperties macro for K2.  Prevented small
increments from being added to K2 exposure time for forcing dark reference.

6/3/13: K2type 2 defined for Base camera; sets timing defaults and disables
counting modes in dialog, set scaling to divide counts by 4.

6/3/13: Stored binning and camera index in .mdoc file; when an image is read
in, set binning from .mdoc, or from title of image file, before using logic
based on size of current camera.

5/31/13: Fixed crash on startup from uninitialized pointer.

5/29/13: Fixed crash when reading in montage due to autosave log feature.

5/28/13: Added separate neutral values for GIF mode on JEOL (untested).

* 5/28/13: Made Realign to Item not change stage Z if it is run during Acquire
at Points and rough eucentricity was run.

5/28/13: Disable camera buttons during a general stage move; STOP button
re-enables them without killing the stage move thread.

5/28/13: Added stern warning when calibrating stage shift for higher mags.

* 5/19/13: Made program keep scaled calibrations internally so that they work
with the current aperture on the Titan; crossover, beam, and spot calibrations
ask what the current aperture is; there is a menu entry for informing the
program of the aperture; and the program reports the status of intensity
calibrations on startup.

5/19/13: Added check for duplicate property entries.

5/8/13: Fixed frames saved from K2 to be full-sized, made images saved from
SerialEM be exactly centered subsets on the saved frames, and made pixel size
in saved frames be correct when low dose area is changing.

* 5/6/13: Changed Realign to Item to do the first round with the image shift
needed to align with final mag (incorporating the low dose View offset)
instead of changing the target position being aligned to; this works
much better with high View defocus and reduces confusion by leaving the
aligned position in the middle of the display.

* 5/6/13: Made setting of View shift offset take a new view shot and tell user
to align and push set again if needed.

5/5/13: Added general property NoK2SaveFolderBrowse to suppress Browse button
when there are no filesystems mutually accessible to SerialEM and K2.

* 5/5/13: Imposed all known constraints on exposure time and frame time for K2
and made exposure time changing during tilt series obey these constraints;
allowed scheduled changes in frame time.  Fixed treatment of drift settling.
Fixed dose metadata to reflect constrained exposure time.

4/28/13: Added properties DefaultRegularCamera and DefaultGIFCamera to define
which camera to switch to when going out of or into EFTEM.

4/27/13: Allowed software processing in K2 dose fractionation mode; it is no
longer a problem and is appropriate.  Dose fractionation images saved from the
plugin are scaled by 16 for super-resolution mode or by the same scaling
applied to the image returned to SerialEM for counting mode.

4/27/13: Fixed scaling of illuminated area output.

4/18/13: Fixed autoloader slot numbering.

4/18/13: Start a new log file when MontageAutosaveLog is on and filename does
not match.

4/18/13: Fixed dose rate output in min/max/mean if dividing by 2.

4/4/13: Fixed rotation of gain references passed back by DM plugin for
non-square camera.

4/4/13: Fixed crash when going into EFTEM with "blanked removal", prevented
filter setup from being called if camera busy. 

4/3/13: Built with new FEI scripting includes, fixes autoloader calls.

4/3/13: Fixed setup of file saving for a GIF K2 not marked as retractable.

* 3/30/13: Added output of dose rate in electrons/unbinned pixel/sec for K2
camera to camera setup dialog and min/max/mean report.

3/29/13: Fixed bad problem with focus in low dose tilt series when a "tilt
after reversal" has to be done and there is a View defocus offset.  Also fixed
similar problem with "move focus center".

* 3/29/13: Added a function to catch crashes (unhandled exceptions) and try
to close valves, save log, and put up a message box.

3/29/13: Added property MontageAutosaveLog to make log get autosaved just like
in a tilt series when doing a montage.

3/15/13: Fixed LoadCartridge macro command to not abort after loading.

3/15/13: Fixed Save Single/to Other with background saving enabled.

3/15/13: Added macro command EnterOneNumber to get a number from the user.

3/15/13: Changed beam intensity calibration procedure to work with K2 as long
as properties are set right for it.

3/14/13: Made Realign to Item set binning of pieces it reads from maps to
prevent problems correlating with a new image.

3/12/13: Fixed many vulnerabilities in background saving.

3/9/13: Added macro commands to report and set net image shift.

3/6/13: For K2: fixed pixel size of saved frames in super-res mode, made
lower-mag tasks not change the Trial exposure time and binning, and made
images returned to SerialEM in dose-fractionation mode have same size as
regular images.

* 3/4/13: Implemented saving to file in a background thread; this is
provisionally off by default and enabled with property BackgroundSaveToFile.

3/1/13: Added a property FitMontageWithFullFrames so that montages fit to a
polygon can be constrained to use full frames instead of subareas.

3/1/13: Only open STEM panel if STEM camera is in active list.

3/1/13: Added drift settling for K2, constrained to multiple of frame time.

* 3/1/13: On Titan, illuminated area will be mapped internally to a range of
0.1 to 0.9 if a property IlluminatedAreaLimits is entered with the approximate
lowest and highest values.  C2 % readouts are now shown as IA um.

2/28/13: Fixed crash on opening new file after Navigator Acquire opens new
montage.

2/28/13: Added option to high-quality stage montage to not blank beam during
camera readout to provide extra pre-exposure for next area.

2/7/13: Fixed crash when acquiring stage montage with IS realign and anchor.

2/6/13: Allowed Calibrate-Standard LM Focus to be used to save a eucentric
focus in nonLM mode and added macro command SetEucentricFocus to go to the
standard focus in LM or nonLM.

2/6/13: Fixed some problems with the controls for multiple gain references in
the gain reference dialog.

2/4/13: Disabled calibrate dose button in gain ref dialog if no camera gain
available.

1/31/13: Made it derive an image shift calibration by simply copying from the
nearest mag when using PLA on the JEOL.

1/28/13: Made sure drift settling is zero in parameter set when camera cannot
pre-expose.

1/28/13: Increased timeouts for K2 camera to account for dark reference in
linear mode, or slow saving time when saving frames.

1/28/13: Fixed show cross-correlation, broken by adding autocorrelation.

1/24/13: Added debug output key d for electron dose failures.

1/23/13: Added FindPixelSize macro command to run routine in Process menu.

* 1/10/13: Added property to indicate that there is more than one camera in TIA
so that the program will allow reselection of the current camera in MUI/TIA;
also added properties to enter actual image sizes of FEI cameras when camera
size is not evenly divisible by subarea size and binning.

1/7/13: Made UseTrialBinningForShiftCal work in non-STEM and fixed
documentation which had wrong name.

12/13/12: Split up socket code used for K2 interface on FEI scopes so that
more than one socket can be used.

12/4/12: Stopped multiple message boxes and pathological behavior when image
shift gets clipped on JEOL while changing low dose area or setting axis
position.

12/4/12: Added Process menu item for autocorrelation.

* 11/27/12: Restored beam shift after alpha changes in low dose and added
calibration routine so beam shift can be changed appropriately.

11/27/12: Made fitting montage to polygon work with low dose View or Record.

11/12/12: Improved accuracy of image location derived from mouse position.

* 11/4/12: Enabled "Move Item" for a map, with confirmation required, and
provided for a new raw stage position to be assigned if one clicks in the
center of an image.

* 11/4/12: Added a Navigator "color", NoRealign, that can be selected to keep a
map from being used for Realign to Item.

11/4/12: Fixed varying exposure time not getting fully restored at end of
tilt series (in 3.2.3b).

11/4/12: Made Navigator check whether autosave file from short-term cal exists
before asking whether to recover it.

* 11/3/12: Fixed inheritance of changes in TS params, file properties, or
montage params to later items with the same set of params or properties, and
put out various messages about when params are being inherited.

* 11/3/12: Added sliders for black and white levels.

11/2/12: Made array allocation for image acquisition and display not exceed
the total memory limit and fixed problems with image display when arrays are
not allocated.

* 10/30/12: Added option to Align & Focus panel to do backlash in stage moves
with mouse or when resetting image shift.

* 10/30/12: Made sure full grid montage starts at defined center even if 
stage is moved by user before starting.

10/29/12: Fixed new exposure time getting lost when press Smaller or Larger in
Autocen Setup dialog (in 3.2.3b).

10/28/12: Forbid using HQ params for montage in Low Dose mode.

10/28/12: Changed autoalign to evaluate correlation coefficients at
alternative locations and at multiple peaks, instead of doing small 
non-normalized correlations; it will always do a basic number of peaks and
"evaluate multiple peaks" will make it evaluate many (up to 40).  Also
returned to padding smaller area to size of larger.

10/27/12: Improved non-centered trimming to start at centroid of image.

* 10/27/12: Added option to do Walkup with View in Low Dose mode.

* 10/24/12: Added checkbox to Navigator to show the current acquisition area
(Record or montage area) around a marker point, and a button to add the marker
position as a point.

* 10/24/12: Stored View shift in Nav file so that it can be used in Realign
to Item, where it is needed.  Also fixed the adjustment of the buffer image
shift when there is a View shift in a new image.

* 10/23/12: Added option to use View parameters for montage in Low Dose mode.

* 10/23/12: Program and DM plugin now support K2 camera super-resolution mode,
and dose fractionation with optional aligning of frames in DM and saving of
frames to a stack or multiple files by the plugin.

10/23/12: Cleaned up data array for error on DigiScan acquire, and when
there is a camera timeout, so it now reports a timeout.

10/20/12: Zero out pan of image after zooming back down.

10/19/12: Fixed test X-ray removal from Process menu for non-square images.

10/16/12: Fixed intensity to C2 scaling (broken in 3.2.0) (in 3.2.3a).

10/14/12: Fixed two bugs in setting low dose View shift offset if one has
been set already.

10/8/12: Changed the way that Realign to Item evaluates correlations with
multiple montage frames to use correlation coefficients, take account of
whether several correlations imply equivalent positions, and weight the
CCCs by the amount of area correlated and positional error.

* 10/8/12: Made Realign to Item prefer a map at the same position over other
maps for first round of realignment, so that it will use an anchor map in
preference to an earlier montage.

* 10/8/12: Added a routine to correct for X/Y backlash and return an adjusted
stage position.  Navigator now keeps track of backlash for all items with
stage in backlash-corrected state and whether two maps are at essentially the
same position.  It will automatically run the backlash routine if needed when
doing an anchor map, and either ask or automatically run it when a new map
is added bigger than a set size.  All items considered at the same position
as the current item are adjusted.

10/8/12: Changed defaults for stage calibration and stage montage backlash
from 3 to 5 microns for FEI scopes.

10/5/12: Add word "rate" to dose calibration message and, for K2, output
the dose rate per unbinned pixel.

* 9/20/12: Made realign to item go to item's Z value and stay there, not
go to the Z of map being aligned to (in 3.2.3a).

* 9/20/12: Stored the defocus offset when a View mode image is saved as a map
and applied this when realigning to it.

9/20/12: Got K2 counting mode working properly and made program scale up 
counting mode images to have same gain as linear mode.

9/12/12: Implemented alternate pathway to DigitalMicrograph via sockets and
changed camera code so that connections to one DM via COM, one DM via socket,
and AMT cameras can co-exist.

9/12/12: SEM_3-2-3
9/10/12: Fixed uninitialized variable in insertion/retraction thread.

9/10/12: Fixed multichannel STEM acquisition.

6/28/12: Fixed to test insertion state for any camera with retractable
property set.

6/23/12: Added features for selecting counting mode with K2 camera.

6/23/12: Set up structure for microscope plugin.

6/5/12: SEM_3-2-2
6/5/12: Fixed Navigator overwriting montage parameters of a remaining open
file when opening new file, which made realign to item fail for second tilt
series if medium and high mag map files were open when starting.

6/5/12: Fixed problem with existing montage file being reopened with wrong
overlap.

6/1/12: SEM_3-2-1
6/1/12: Enabled non-centered trimming in second round of Realign to Item,
which helps some when there is a grid bar in the field.  Added backlash
correction for Go To Marker when the marker is on a montage.

5/29/12: Fixed wrong move in Realign to item for second round when first round
ends up on different piece than intended; fixed stage position assigned by
Navigator when a stage montage map made with IS realign is started with
nonzero image shift; fixed imposed shift in change of 5/14/12.

5/27/12: Added a custom regsvr32 for registering 32-bit plugins with GMS2;
the system regvsr32 hangs in Windows 7.

5/25/12: Added one-second delay between opening film shutter and beam blanker
in special film exposure.

5/25/12: Fixed crash when doing Navigator move to point marked on a
single-frame map.

5/24/12: Added property MakeFEIerrorBeTimeout to convert a COM error from FEI
camera into a timeout that can be retried; the conversion (added about
4/25/12) will no longer happen automatically.

5/24/12: Fixed problem with focus ramper being called when calibrating camera
timing with an FEI camera (which shouldn't be done anyway).

5/24/12: Fixed exposure time shown in initial message box for camera timing
calibration.

5/24/12: Fixed use of DetectorName for giving FEI camera a separate name.

5/24/12: Fixed initial reset image shift on JEOL to take account of neutral
value again.

5/18/20: Switched deflector used for STEM image shift to CLA1 on JEOL and
added property JeolUseCLA2forSTEM to use CLA2 instead.

5/14/12: When Realign to Item shifts to target with image shift, made it give
report and shift the image too.

5/10/12: Fixed return values from autoloader commands and made
ReportSlotStatus not call function to see if autoloader is available.

5/7/12: SEM_3-2-0
*** Oct 2011 - April 2012: STEM tomography supported in SerialEM.

5/7/12: Added macro commands for working with FEI autoloader.

5/2/12: Added ability to name an FEI camera something other than the required
name by entering the required name in a DetectorName property.

5/2/12: Spot size and intensity for new map now come from values when image
was taken instead of from current scope values.

5/2/12: Made short-term calibrations be saved in system path location (where
calibrations come from), not in common location.

5/1/12: Made minor changes for Falcon cameras.

* 5/1/12: Montaging will now store the stage error of each piece when
realigning with image shift.  Moving to a navigator point marked on a montage,
it will add an interpolated stage error.  Realign to item will also apply the
exact stage error when going to a piece center and an interpolated error when
going to the target position.

5/1/12: Fixed overview display from a 1x1 montage.

5/1/12: When montaging using realign with image shift, it will no longer nag
about calibrating image shift if a 2.5% error in image shift would produce
less than a 10% error in overlap.

4/30/12: Fixed correction for shrinkage in realign to item.

4/30/12: In Refine ZLP, stopped it from asking about starting at a loss
setting when zero-loss is checked.

4/25/12: Added spot size and camera number to second title line of file.

* 4/23/12: When moving to a Navigator point that was marked on a montage, it
will now use the same backlash correction used when taking the montage.

4/23/12: Fixed autoalign when called for montage realign with image shift,
broken by trimming/padding changes on 3/19.
 
4/20/12: Made single-item queries come out in middle of SerialEM window not on
first monitor.

4/17/12: Fixed SEMRunLog.txt being written up one level.

4/13/12: When using special film exposure, stopped beam from being unblanked
early on when the camera is inserted (a good thing) and switched to using the
beam blanker for the actual exposure when there is no pre-exposure (maybe not
a good thing).

4/13/12: Made an install.bat to clean up old files, copy just needed ones, and
register the right plugin for the GMS version.

4/12/12: Added ability to set a series of exposure times for extra Records
instead of just one.

* 4/12/12: Added property MaximumTiltAngle which defaults to 79.9; made Reverse
Tilt not exceed this angle; limited tilt series range to this angle; when TSC
detects that insufficient or no backlash correction occurred, it now calls the
tilt after stage move routine with mag suitable for doing Reverse Tilt,
instead of using "low mag tracking" that the user may not have set a mag for.

4/12/12: Made several errors in camera controller not put up message boxes
when doing multiple TS, including deferred message at end of acquire.

* 3/29/12: Made line-drawing with Shift - left mouse drag report angle as well;
changed length and box size output to be microns when >= 1 um.

3/29/12: Fixed filter changes being lost in some cases, in particular when
going out of low dose for Realign to Item on JEOL.

3/29/12: Added NormalizeLenses macro command.

3/27/12: Really fixed reading in of version 1.43 Navigator files and writing
of 1.45 files.

3/25/12: Added optional argument to AutoFocus macro command to focus with View
in Low Dose.

* 3/20/12: Added option to control whether tilt series stops for confirmation
before retaking a Record in low dose mode.

3/19/12: Switched Autoalign to trimming a larger area to match a smaller one
instead of padding a small one and correlating with a larger one.  Made
trimming in Autoalign able to trim to a non-centered area if there is no
stretching between the two images.

* 3/19/12: Added correction for shrinkage in first round of realign to item.

3/12/12: Made autofocus routine go to low dose focus area before saving beam
tilt value when beam tilt shifts are being set in low dose.

2/28/12: Made it set new Record state parameters when a low dose stored state
is selected while in Low Dose record mode.

* 2/7/12: Made it set tool panel positions when loading a settings file.

2/6/12: Fixed several problems with going to a mag other than that of the
current low dose area on the JEOL that could make it impose a large image
shift when PLA is used for IS.

* 2/3/12: Made it draw the rectangle around a map as a fixed rectangle around
the center instead of adjusting the coordinates of each corner independently.

2/3/12: Fixed problem with zoom setting when the first image displayed is a
loaded map.

2/1/12: Made the test for needing low mag tracking after tilt reversal depend
on the maximum tilt error so this tracking won't happen on JEOLs.

2/1/12: Fixed TSC closing values every other time when one-loop is done
repeatedly after end of series.

2/1/12: Clarified that crossover calibration should be done at eucentric
focus.

* 2/1/12: Made it give an error if fraction of pixels truncated when saving
unsigned data to a signed file with truncation is greater than a limit (1% by
default).  Also documented that the default mode can be set to 6.

1/23/12: Kept state dialog from trying to set imaging state with an
unavailable camera.

1/22/12: Fixed problem with skip autofocus being ignored if set after
series starts and series is resumed other than through setup dialog.

1/22/12: Fixed problem with adding extra record output after series starts,
made it roll original Record back into A after saving an extra Record.

1/22/12: Made it close the right file, not the current, when terminating TS.

1/22/12: Made TSC ignore irrelevant tilt series variations (e.g., filter
changes when there is no filter) and display NA for them in the dialog table.

* 1/20/12: Made Tab work for completion in macro editor.

1/19/12: Fixed problem with montage dialog changing frame sizes for an
existing file, which crashed when reading from file, made it disable cameras
when the frame sizes can't be achieved, and made it impossible to take
new montage with such a camera.

1/18/12: Fixed change in axis positions when turning EFTEM on or off
with Low dose on.

1/17/12: Made pixel size finding routine bin larger images to 1024 since the
analysis does not work well with larger images.

1/15/12: Fixed drawing of green cross after a box has been drawn.

* 1/13/12: Added Navigator menu entry to convert a set of corner points to a
polygon.

12/28/11: Fixed assessment of sufficient counts during tilt series when the
Focus area is shifted far away from the center of the Record area.

12/15/11: Made autofocus clear its required mean count value after failing.

12/9/11: Detected when trying to make a map from an image converted to bytes
and made a message with instructions on how to fix scaling problems; also
attached map stage coordinates to image when reading in as map, to make it
easier to recreate an accidentally deleted map.

12/4/11: Made protection against using peak at 0,0 due to fixed pattern noise
work when calibrating and checking autofocus.

12/1/11: Fixed closing of beam shutter after exposure in special film 
exposure command.

11/30/11: Made distortion pairs not apply image shift when aligning pairs.

11/16/11: Fixed IncPercentC2 macro command.

* 11/14/11: Added ability to shift beam with Shift arrow keys, change increment
with < and >.

10/28/11: Changed to handle insertion of cameras other than Gatans.

10/28/11: Incorporated FasTEM code and converted to single executable and
build for all microscopes.

10/28/11: Fixed getting mean for testing montage piece having sufficient
counts with unsigned images.

10/20/11: Added macro command to turn low dose on and off.

10/26/11: Fixed autofocus drift nm/sec output in verbose mode.

10/16/11: Split realign to item disparity into two parts to adjust better for
stage variability between center and edge of piece.

10/16/11: Undo change to realign to item on 8/10/11 - it throws things off
worse to not revise the disparity.  Fix bug in how it decides whether to
assign a recent disparity to a new map.

* 10/9/11: Added antialias filtering as in 3dmod when zoomed below 0.8.

10/9/11: Added property to ignore a subset of Gatan cameras.

* 10/9/11: The program will now read DM version 4 files, and display DM files
right-side up.

10/6/11: SEM_3-1-1
* 10/5/11: Provided versions of DigitalMicrograph plugin for GMS 2.

10/5/11: Made StageBusy check stage status for real and not rely on event
status every 4 seconds on JEOL.

10/3/11: Fixed problem with tilt angle getting set wrong if One-Step is used
along with Resume at start of series.

* 10/2/11: Added macro command to switch cameras.

* 9/30/11: Removed option for periodic realign to piece with stage shift 
in montage.

9/30/11: Fixed montage with realignment going to wrong place on second piece.

9/30/11: Fixed getting name for anchor realignment image when using an .idoc.

9/30/11: Fixed crash when anchor realignment image is not found.

9/5/11: Made a new camera control set when taking anchor realignment image in
montage.

* 8/10/11: In realign to item, no longer revise estimated stage disparity in
second stage of alignment because an error in stage calibration will throw off
the estimate from location not centered on a piece.

6/20/11: Disabled "SingleTecnai" property which is obsolete and broken.

6/17/11: Fixed problem with realign to item when user has no buffer rolling
(in 3.0).

6/16/11: In setting up full montage, limited the user's limits by the system
limits, kept corners within limits, and tested for sufficient area left within
limits.

6/15/11: Added ability to set additional beam tilt as well as shift for Trial
and Focus areas if property LowDoseBeamTiltShifts is set.

6/15/11: Fixed montage reading to not move stage to montage center at end.

6/15/11: When it fails to get vaccuum reading, it stops trying instead of
continuing to screw up the update.

5/19/11: In Low Dose, set new filter settings immediately on JEOL and then set
intensity to protect against intensity change imposed by scope.

5/18/11: Made TS Controller do a debug dump when a timeout occurrs.

5/17/11: Stopped walkup from crashing program if image shift clipping error
occurs.

5/17/11: Tripled wait for stage ready in general stage move routine, increased
timeouts when tilting in tilt series.

4/26/11: Fixed uninitialized value of maximum image shift in realign to item
(in 3.0).

4/25/11: Fixed problem with exposure times being set to zero when changing
exposure for intensity and limit to current value selected (in 3.0).

4/21/11: Made realign to item pick map where target is most interior if
two overlapping maps are otherwise equivalent.

* 4/8/11: Implemented alignment to adjacent montage pieces using image shift
instead of stage shift, with alignment occurring on every piece.  This can be
used with or without an option to run the montage from the center outward and
have an anchor image stored at the center.

4/8/11: Added a property to scale the image shift delay, and a Calibrate menu
item for setting the scaling in order to assess the needed value.

* 4/8/11: Made non-verbose autofocus output include drift.

* 4/7/11: Made the default be to create .mdoc files for montages.

4/5/11: Fixed return values when getting tilt angle or stage position from
an image buffer that lacks them (in 3.0).

4/5/11: Fixed crash when taking prescans.

* 4/4/11: Made it possible to resume and overwrite pieces in a completely done
montage.

4/4/11: Fixed filling of overview image when resuming.

3/28/11: Enhanced test for a montage piece inside polygon to sample along sides
of piece.

3/4/11: Updated table and marked navigator data as changed when polygon
gets its center updated with center for montage (in 3.0).

3/4/11: Fixed several problems When realigning to previous piece in montage
and added a test for stage at correct location (in 3.0).

3/4/11: Fixed test for montage coordinates in a file where the starting
coordinate is not zero (in 3.0).

* 3/2/11: Added property UseIlluminatedAreaForC2 so that intensity control will
work on Titan Krios.  Also added macro commands to set and read illuminated
area when this property is not set.

2/28/11: Fixed TS controller requiring an intensity calibration when varying
exposure instead of intensity (in 3.0).

2/17/11: Fixed output of Montage = 1 in .idoc file for large montage (in 3.0)

2/15/11: Fixed allocation of header space for very large montages (in 3.0).

2/15/11: Fixed crash bug if adding a Navigator item with collapse groups on
and fixed using backspace to delete points with collapse on (in 3.0).

* 2/14/11: Added SetCameraArea macro command.

2/14/11: Added target defocus to .mdoc output.

2/7/11: Fixed gain normalization for F416 with flipping around Y axis.

2/4/11: Fixed SMTP port entry, which needed to be byte-swapped (in 3.0)

2/1/11: Fixed radio buttons for area to show with screen down (in 3.0)

1/28/11: Fixed crash bug if last navigator item is deleted with collapse 
groups on (in 3.0)

1/20/11: Fixed bug that ruined montage alignment with very sloppy off.

1/12/11: Fixed tilt range assessor to not compare intensities of first tilt
picture and zero-deg image unless image type is the same (in 3.0).

1/3/11: Fixed Navigator test for valid macro when there are calls (in 3.0).

* 1/2/10: Many changes that should improve alignment of montage pieces in maps,
especially with very sloppy option on: adopted latest changes in Blendmont for
computing CCC's; used robust fitting to avoid having alignment thrown off by
outliers; also skipped edges based on extremely low CCC values; stored images
for overview in untiled form and tiled them into place based on the alignment
solution.  Also, if a .mdoc file is opened, edge displacements are saved there
and can be used to tile read-in pieces directly into the correct location
based on global solution.

12/22/10: Fixed bug that crashed program or led to non-movement of montaging
after switching Very Sloppy option on or off (in 3.0).

12/19/10: Switched to build against static libraries libtiff 2.9.4, libjpeg
8b, and zlib 1.2.5.

* 12/19/10: Added ability to save a pair of trial images from opposite 
low dose areas as "extra Records", with adjustable binning.

12/19/10: Fixed setting of spot size for extra Records and file numbers in
error messages (in 3.0).

12/18/10: Grid of points can be added inside a map as well as polygon.

12/18/10: Added macro command to set standardized focus.

12/18/10: Navigator stops the acquisition if last macro run ended with an
abort rather than a user end.

12/18/10: Made Navigator test for a valid macro before starting acquires 
(in 3.0).

12/18/10: Made Navigator turn off acquire checkbox when current item's acquire
is done (in 3.0).

* 12/12/10: Added completion of macro commands in editor using ` key (above
tab).

12/11/10: Added a structure for SerialEM to load plugins, and for plugins to
have functions callable from a macro.

12/9/10: Fixed computation of largest image shift needed for montage (in 3.0).

12/8/10: SEM_3-1-0 and branch to SEM_3-0-0 (branch tagged as SEM-0-00)
12/6/10: Fixed pixel size output from ImageProperties command.

* 12/3/10: Made Min/max/mean do subarea if a box is drawn on image.

* 12/3/10: Added a policy option to allow automatic termination upon 3 dim
images when otherwise stopping for errors.

12/2/10: Stopped syncing of parameters (target defocus, etc) between TSC and
other program modules when setting up batch series.

12/2/10: Fixed importing of angles from range assessment to preserve the
existing order.  Added Swap button to swap starting and ending angles.

12/2/10: Made it able to save floating point images to files.

12/1/10: Eliminated a bad assumption when getting focus value on JEOL.

11/30/10: Fixed problem with it not taking a pending shot after camera
removal upon switching into EFTEM mode.

* 11/29/10: Added ability to take low-dose trial/focus images from opposite
side of record area and macro commands for taking such images and
autofocusing.
 
11/29/10: Made tilt range routine stop if first picture at tilt is much less
intense than the zero-degree picture.

11/29/10: Fixed computation of lost fractions in tilt series, which would be
way off in one direction with rotations near 45 degrees.

11/23/10: SerialEM 3.0 beta 1
11/23/10: Fixed blue drawing over top of control panel when it is floated and
user has XP style.

11/23/10: Made TS Controller test for termination due to error at top of
action loop to prevent runaway actions.

11/23/10: Fixed missing Go and One Loop buttons in tilt series setup when
stopped while running from Navigator.

11/23/10: Fixed changing defocus when tilt series is changing the target.

11/23/10: Stop autofocusing properly when an error occurs.

11/23/10: Retain extra data when converting map to bytes.

11/23/10: Fixed JeolHasNoAlpha property so 1 instead of 0 means no alpha.

* 11/23/10: Changing lowdose view defocus offset will now change defocus if
already in view area.

11/22/10: SerialEM 3.0 alpha 3
11/22/10: Added macro commands to make a directory and to allow overwriting
an existing file when opening a new one.

11/22/10: Converted to HTML help in a .chm file.

11/19/10: Added a YesNoBox macro command to get a yes/no answer as a value.

* 11/19/10: Report min/max/mean of image after using Acquire button in camera
setup. 

11/18/10: Made camera controller check size of Gatan and Tietz cameras against
size in properties file and issue warnings about a mismatch.

* 11/18/10: Added pixel size to Process - min/max/mean output.

11/18/10: Made a mag derive its rotation by relative rotation from the nearest
calibrated mag, not the one below.

11/18/10: Fixed the zeroing of image shift during beam autocenter routine to
account for any applied offsets, and made it not happen in low dose mode.
Also prevented Trial intensity from being changed if continuous update on.

* 11/18/10: Added persistent variables, compound IF statements with AND and OR
operators, and ELSEIF statements to macros.

11/16/10: The cross-correlation coefficient of unfiltered autofocus images
is now computed and reported in focusing Verbose output.

11/14/10: SerialEM 3.0 alpha 2
11/13/10: Prevented montage setup and gain reference policy dialogs from
opening during image acquisition.

11/13/10: Fixed bug in computation of expected gain reference size which was
giving errors with binning 3 and/or 6.

11/10/10: No longer apply image shift on scope if a processed image is mouse
shifted.

11/10/10: Based image shift when mouse shifting on camera image was taken on,
not current camera.

* 11/5/10: Added a way to calibrate the stretch in the stage coordinate system
and made the transformations based on registration points and alignment of
rotated images correct for this stretch.

11/5/10: Added property containing a transformation so that rotation alignment
could correct for imaging stretch.

11/5/10: Fixed backup tilt series, which made it impossible to go on.

11/4/10: Fixed problem with eucentricity tiltup starting before image shift
reset routine fully done.

* 11/3/10: Added ability to schedule changes in exposure time, drift settling,
defocus target, or filter settings at defined angles during tilt series;
changes can have fixed values or vary linearly between specified points.

* 11/3/10: Added ability to modify exposure time instead of beam intensity
during tilt series.

* 11/2/10: Added an image cropping macro command and a Process menu item; area
to crop is selected with drawn line or box (Shift or Ctrl-Shift left mouse).

* 11/1/10: Made C key work to toggle corner point in Navigator.

11/1/10: Fixed filter settings not going into log for omega filter.

10/29/10: Added a periodic Read from vacuum gauge if status is invalid -
needed for Tecnai 4.0.

10/26/10: Fixed Low Dose Set View Shift being disabled for camera 0.

10/25/10: Fixed deleting of dark references for 16-bit cameras when Divide by
2 is toggled.

* 10/25/10: Implemented interpolation of dark references so that small changes
in exposure time do not require a new dark reference.

* 10/22/10: Handled Tietz geometry settings correctly for non-centered subareas
and handled strange restrictions on coordinates for F416/F816 cameras.

10/22/10: Prevented double counting of pieces on skip lists, which was
screwing up reading in montages too.

10/19/10: Added procedure for aligning an image to a map with rotation and
then transforming points into a new registration.

* 10/17/10: Improved beam centering routine by changing fits to beam edges to
use weighting by the image gradient and robust weighting.

10/16/10: Fixed disabling of "Restore scope state" button in Nav Acquire when
doing tilt series.

10/16/10: Changed label from IS to PLA in scope status panel for JEOL scopes
using PLA for image shift.

10/14/10: Fixed disabling of shift-related buttons in montage panel with
skip correlations on but HQ not.

10/14/10: SerialEM 3.0 alpha executables available with these changes:

Added Bigger/Smaller buttons to Beam Autocenter Setup and solved some
problems with low dose.

* Added ability to read/write a metadata file in autodoc format and made the
associated data structures be the primary storage for this metadata; this now
allows montages > 65536 pixels.

Changed default extension for the autodoc file when making a TIFF series from
.adoc to .idoc, and made all metadata, not just the items checked for extended
header, be store in .idoc and .mdoc files.

Made Camera & Macro Tools panel modify End button appropriately in various
cases.

* Added size output to camera setup dialog

* Added tilt series range assessment dialog 

Added check for duplicate images when montaging with Eagle camera

Removed limits on number of montage pieces

* The column/gun valves will be closed automatically when most message boxes
have been up for a certain time; this behavior is controlled in the Tilt
Series Batch Policies dialog.

* An image shift can now be specified for the View area in Low Dose.

* The axis between record and Trial/Focus in Low Dose can be rotated away from
the tilt axis.

* Added ability to schedule files to be opened when acquiring certain Navigator
items, and incorporated the previous scheduling of files to be opened for
groups into this capability.  A new montage can be fit to a polygon when
defining a file to be opened.

* Tilt series are now run from the Navigator.  All file and tilt series
parameters are set in advance in the Navigator.  Tilt series can no longer be
run from a macro, but it is possible to run a macro before a tilt series
started from the Navigator.  Microscope and image acquisition states can also
be set to be asserted for a particular tilt series.

There is a menu item to list the files to be opened, tilt series to be run,
and states to be set when doing Navigator Acquire.

Rearranged the order of preliminary actions in Navigator Acquire.

Output a message when Navigator Acquire saves an image.

Made Navigator Acquire check in advance that suitable maps exist when Realign
to Item is checked.

New log files can be opened automatically when doing multiple tilt series, as
controlled by option in Batch Policies dialog.

* Implemented an imaging state dialog for saving and setting imaging states, 
it can also be used to set map acquire state and check a state scheduled to be
set during Navigator acquire.  These states are stored in user settings and
the stock state file has been eliminated.

* Added Update Z button to Navigator.

* Added button to make it easy to acquire a medium-mag map at a location to be
acquired, referred to as an anchor map.

A grid of points can now be set up to be accessed in an order away from the
low dose focus area instead of in a zigzag pattern.

An Navigator autosave file left over from a crash will now be detected and can
be selected for use. 

* Added ability to summarize groups of points in Navigator list box and to do
some operations on summarized groups.

Navigator acquire has option to autofocus only on first item of group.

Made cooker and beam autocenter startup use controlled message boxes, and made
Navigator Acquire stop if they return with error.

Cooking routine turns off low dose and restarts it and manages intensity
correctly.

* Changed Tilt Series setup dialog to present one section at a time in
sequence, or left or right half, or traditional full dialog.

* Added ability to have pixel and intensity matching when switching between
nonGIF cameras, similar to when switching between GIF and nonGIF.

Stopped program from opening minimized if it was closed minimized.

Added warning for wrong gain reference name.

Allowed scale bars on all but processed and FFT images.

Defaulted JeolPostMagDelay to 1250 msec when updating by event, doubled the
delay for mag mode changes.

Sped up mouse shifting on JEOL when not updating by events.

* Added ability to draw a line to measure distances (Shift - left click and
drag)

Increased time allowed for post-action stage move 2.5-fold.

* Made colored indicator of whether intensity is in calibrated range,
controlled by property ShowIntensityCalStatus

Fixed bug in camera timing routine with Tietz camera.

* Made map buffers keep separate pans just as they keep separate zooms.

Added a way to set separate defaults for whether to make a metadata autodoc
or a series of TIFFs when montaging versus opeing a single-frame file.

* Renamed Save to Other to Save Single when there is no open file and enabled
it to be used always to save to a single-image file.

* Added option to use trial area images in low dose for refining eucentricity.

Prevented Use Trial In LD setting for reset shift and realign from affecting
parameter set used when not in low dose.

* Montage improvements: added geometry management in dialog to eliminate empty
space at top an open a new section of parameters for high-quality stage
montages.  There are options for focusing the center of a block of pieces,
realigning to an existing piece periodically and at the start of a column,
setting a delay time after stage moves, and skipping correlations.  Added a
text box for a minimum overlap in microns for stage montage.  Added a reset
button for the overlap.

Rationalized the treatment of image shift limits when setting up montages:
properties NavigatorMaxMontageIS and NavigatorMaxLMMontageIS have new defaults
of 7 and 35, they are hard limits for using image instead of stage shift when
fitting to a polygon, and they trigger a message box to user otherwise asking
if they want to use stage shift.

7/14/10: Made autofocus go to standard LM focus in LM.

* 7/10/10: Made program able to send email through an SMTP server (using code
from Matthias Brunner).  Added a macro command for sending an email, an option
in the Navigator Acquire dialog to send one at the end of acquisition, and an
option in the Tilt Series menu to send one when tilt series ends or stops.

* 7/9/10: Added option in Process menu to make a color overlay from two or
three images, and an option in the Navigator Import dialog to make a map that
is a color overlay of two imported maps.

* 7/4/10: Made program able to read and write color (RGB) images in TIFF or MRC
files.

9/7/10: SEM_2-8-10
9/7/10: Incorporated various small fixes introduced during development of 3.0:

Fixed problem with automatic pixel size or mag matching being on when there is
no non-GIF camera.

Made scope stay in EFTEM mode if screen down and setting up autocenter beam.

Disabled post-actions properly for Eagle camera.

Made eucentricity wait for stage ready before restoring tilt angle on Stop.

Made double stage moves in tasks wait for stage ready and stop other
processing properly if it doesn't become ready.

Fixed montage not doing correlations with more than 15 pieces (limit is 256).
Disabled various montage panel buttons when number of pieces is above limit
for correlations.

Rebalanced shifts in low dose after defining area if balanced shifts on.

Fixed computation of area separation in low dose, which was really bad for
oblique axis angles.

Disabled some buttons in Navigator during tasks and acquires.

Prevented beam calibration from going through crossover and added messages
about which side of crossover and whether existing cals will be replaced.

7/12/10: Fixed the limiting of settling time after large tilts that was
actually made worse by "fix" on 4/3/09, and fixed some of the delay time logic
in tasks like walkup it will run as fast with post-actions as without.

7/6/10: Switched to a version of TIFF libraries that can read TIFFs with JPEG
compression, but it still cannot write with JPEG compression.

7/4/10: Fixed crash when the first map read in is an imported TIFF.

7/2/10: SEM_2-8-9
7/2/10: Added option in Image Display panel to draw big centered cross all the
time.

5/25/10: Use dynamic limits for validating montage dialog size/overlap.

4/23/10: Changed DM plugin to close lower shutter when opening beam shutter
for extended pre-exposure to prevent camera exposure/saturation.

4/9/10: Fixed warning messages about montage errors.

4/8/10: Fixed crash bug rotating a large map.

4/8/10: Fixed warning from autocenter beam and made it zero image shift for
the beam-centering picture.

4/8/10: Derated the montage error messages by square of cosine of tilt angle.

3/29/10: Output a grid angle in pixel size finding routine.

3/29/10: Fixed bugs in importing a map and showing cross-correlation that only
showed up in debug mode.

3/29/10: Added menu option and macro command to provide echoing of each macro
line as it is encountered.

3/29/10: Added macro command OpenOldFile to open an existing MRC or Adoc file.

3/27/10: Added macro commands SetMagAndIntensity and ChangeMagAndIntensity to
change magnification and change intensity to keep same screen brightness.

3/26/10: Added menu option for continuous saving into log file for each line 
of output to log window.

2/22/10: SEM_2-8-8
1/29/10: Disabled automatic retry of image acquisition on timeout (could be
easily re-enabled with property if needed).  Deferred all message boxes from
within image acquisition threads to final cleanup to avoid timeouts and
lockups.

1/29/10: Added properties GainRefXsizeEven and GainRefYsizeEven to indicate
that references need to be taken at even sizes.

1/29/10: Fixed many problems with gain references when there is no binning 1.

1/17/10: Support for Direct Electron camera LC1100 (which was added at NCMIR)
now includes pre-exposure control.

12/10/09: Added ability to set a relative rotation between non-contiguous mags
with property SpecialRelativeRotation.

12/10/09: Fixed output of pixel size measurement and added camera number.

12/10/09: Added macro for image shift calibration and camera number to output.

* 12/10/09: Added property RefineZLPRedoInLowDose to control whether refine ZLP
tries at multiple offsets in low dose.

12/10/09: Made it test the Jeol scope directly before giving up when waiting
for stage ready.

12/1/09: Added ability to compensate for drift during an exposure, controlled
by a macro call.

9/7/09: Increased allowed number of montage panels but set a limit to the
number where correlations would be done.

8/13/09: Made low dose areas come out in different colors (is this good?)

8/13/09: Fixed crash after trying to import a montage.

8/12/09: SEM_2-8-7
8/12/09: Added ability to analyze waffle grating automatically to determine
pixel size, available in Process menu.

8/4/09: Added a property CameraTimeoutFactor to increase timeouts for image
acquisition.

7/5/09: Modified plugin to DM to adapt to all possible modifications of the
image (i.e., flipping and rotation).

6/19/09: Added macro command to shift Navigator items by alignment shift of
image in buffer A.

6/18/09: Added some diagnostic output for a COM error during the scope update
routine.

6/9/09: Added TietzImageGeometry property for flipping or rotating image.

6/9/09: Made spot size change before mag when changing low dose to avoid
misleading event on JEOL.

* 5/29/09: Changed sign of energy shift when it needs to be used in place of
spectrum offset with GIF on JEOL.

5/15/09: Issued proper timeout message from tilt series controller.

5/15/09: Increased wait for stage to be ready in stage move call to account 
for post-mag change delay.

5/7/09: Added property to ignore short-term calibrations.

5/7/09: Fixed problem with derived pixel size being used when calibrating
from scratch.

4/27/09: Added property to control whether Tietz camera beam blank mode is
restored after each shot.

4/22/09: SEM_2-8-6
4/19/09: Montage overview read from file is now copied to the read buffer.

* 4/19/09: Made free-standing dialog for reading sections from the current file
with previous and next buttons.

4/18/09: Fixed Copy from another camera button in camera setup dialog.

* 4/18/09: Added new file type, an "autodoc" that describes a series of
numbered TIFF files.  It can be used interchangeably with MRC stacks files.

4/10/09: Implemented timeouts for all image acquisitions in the camera
controller, and allowed for two retries upon timeout.

* 4/4/09: Added button to the camera setup dialog to swap X and Y location and
size.

4/4/09: Made stage montage able to move stage during camera readout, including
moves requiring backlash correction, and fixed backlash logic for montages
that skip pieces at the start of a column.

4/3/09: Added properties to set the initial number of pieces and initial 
fractional overlap that show up in the montage setup dialog.

4/3/09: Added a montage parameter settable by macro to skip the correlations
for aligning pieces.

4/3/09: Limited the increase in delay time after tilting by large angles when
basic delay is large.

4/3/09: Fixed images from Eagle camera always being divided by 2.

4/1/09: Fixed TIFF's being read in upside down.

* 4/1/09: Added ability to save single images to TIFF files with LZW or ZIP
compression.

* 4/1/09: Made it possible to change frame size and number of frames of a
montage until frames are actually written to file, even after a prescan.

4/1/09: Added a property LimitMontageToUsable to limit montage frames to the
usable area of the camera.

3/10/09: Added macro command ImageProperties to report size and other 
properties

2/21/09: Made exposure adjustment for changing binning in image/stage shift
calibration pictures account for dead time and minimum exposure.

2/20/09: Added a NoScope property to allow graceful startup when there is no
scope; it prevents image shifts in autoalign and clear alignment.

2/19/09: Made it drop the screen when switching to a sidemount camera if lower
cameras might be inserted or are not retractable.

1/24/09: SEM_2-8-5
1/23/09: Fixed problem reading version 1.41 Navigator files (created by
SerialEM 2.8.3 or 2.8.4).

1/22/09: Stopped going to Record area in low dose when reading a montage in.

1/22/09: Prevented read-in operations when an image is being acquired.

1/14/09: Stopped updating exposure number in special film exposure, it seems
to be done automatically.

1/8/09: SEM_2-8-4
* 12/22/08: Switched overlap zone cross-correlations when montaging from
tapering inside to smoothing and tapering outside, and applied filtering to
both images being used for computing correlation coefficients in real-space;
both changes will make pieces align somewhat better.

12/22/08: Stop drawing wrong scale bars on read-in images.

* 12/22/08: Fixed initialization problem that will crash program or give weird
result if reading from a map file that is not open.

12/18/08: Fixed the routine that gets a control set for tasks to adjust
for dead time and enforce minimum task exposure.

12/13/08: Fixed the name for accessing shared data from Tietz F816.

12/11/08: Changed the limits for the left, right etc text boxes in camera setup
from 4096 to the actual camera size.

12/3/08: SEM_2-8-3
* 11/27/08: Added macro commands and checkboxes in the navigator acquire dialog
for running the cooking and beam autocentering routines.

* 11/27/08: Added entries in Task menu to run a routine to pre-expose the
specimen and to open a dialog for setting the parameters for the pre-exposure.

* 11/27/08: Added entries in Task menu to run a routine to capture an image
with condensed beam and center the beam with this image, and to open a dialog
for setting the parameters for autocentering.

11/27/08: Allowed imported map to be rotated by a specified angle.

11/27/08: Defined properties to specify fields in TIFF files so that when they
are imported as maps, the program can find the stage coordinates and image
scale.

* 11/27/08: Added ability to read TIFF and DigitalMicrograph files, using the
generic file reading library from IMOD.  Program must now be run with 3 DLLs.

* 11/18/08: Added scale bar, controlled by option in Image Display control
panel.

11/18/08: Made main window resize to leave space on right whenever a new
window is opened.

11/17/08: Made it turn off beam when stopping in montage after failing to
unstick shutter with film picture.

11/17/08: Added macro command to set montage parameters (stage moving and
overlap for now).

* 11/17/08: Made Navigator items be displayed in a "New" window.

* 11/18/08: Added SpecialExposeFilm macro command to use the adaexp server used
by Leginon, which allows control of delay between loading and shooting, and
allows a pre-exposure time.

10/21/08: Tilt series controller will now derive an intensity criterion
from the existing picture in A only if it is supposed to be aligned to and
it is not being run automatically. 

10/21/08: Fixed OpenNewMontage so that supplied frame numbers will work.

10/17/08: SEM_2-8-2
10/16/08: When using Eagle camera, shuttering mode is now switched to "Both"
for exposures with and without drift settling, and left there.  This will
change a setting in the Tecnai user interface but saves 1.1 seconds per
picture.

10/16/08: Shift to Marker now requires the registration of the marker point to
match that of the current point, shifts points at that registration, and
shifts points drawn on imported maps but not the imported maps themselves.

10/11/08: Made stage movements stop being rounded to 0.1 micron by default
on JEOL's - almost no installations have the property entry to prevent this, 
and this change makes that entry unnecessary.

10/11/08: Added a property for specifying maximum allowed error on stage
position in a stage montage; if set, the program will try 3 times to get to
the requested position.

10/11/08: Added a menu item for specifying a minimum count level for each
frame of a montage, and a property setting to take a film picture to try
to unstick the shutter (!) when it falls below the limit.

* 10/6/08: Added checkbox to montage setup to re-enable being asked whether to
make a montage a map.  Fixed the problem with not being asked to make a map.

10/5/08: When Shift-A is pressed in the Navigator, the title line above the
list box is modified to tell the user what to do next.

* 10/4/08: Added ability to add a set of points on a regular grid, either with
a specified spacing or on a lattice defined by some points, and possibly
constrained within a polygon.

* 10/3/08: Added ability to define a file that will be opened when a group of
points (e.g., a supermontage) is first encountered by the Navigator routine
that acquires at points.

* 10/2/08: Added ability to import a map for an external source such as a light
microscope.  Imported items are kept at separate registrations until they are
transformed into registration with maps in the EM.  Added an "Undo
transformation" menu item so that transformation of imported items could be
undone.

* 10/1/08: Changed the way that registration number is assigned to added
points.  If an image has a registration, then points clicked on an image are
given the registration of that image, not the current registration.

* 10/1/08: Navigator now keeps track of and allows operations on groups of
items; a group is a set of items that were added in one operation.
Supermontage deletion is now done by deleting a group.

* 9/28/08: Increased number of macros to 20; added a menu entry to set the
number of buttons to appearin the macro toolbar.

9/27/08: Fixed polygon drawing at low zoom so it is not sensitive to small
mouse movements.

9/27/08: Made End button work for stopping Navigator acquire after the current
item.

9/26/08: Fixed zoom getting stuck at 0.01 using up/down arrows and used 3
decimal places for zoom below 0.1.

9/26/08: Fixed filling of overview image and made it fill with mean of first
acquired frame.

* 9/26/08: Moved all Navigator montaging and supermontaging menu items into
a submenu.

* 9/26/08: Added ability to set up a supermontage that fits inside a polygon.

* 9/26/08: Added option to focus a stage montage at every frame.

9/6/08: Increased number of tries and released mutex when waiting for stage
not ready event.

9/6/08: Fixed problem with control panel state not being updated after a
stage montage (introduced sometime after June 23).

9/6/08: Added menu item to delete all items of a supermontage.

8/2x/08: Added calls to enable or disable AMT camera shuttering based on
screen state.

7/21/08: Fixed bug that failed to extrapolate from beam calibrations below
crossover.

7/21/08: Kept it from blinking "inserting camera" after it finds that
camera temperature is not stable.

6/24/08: Made macro processor evaluate image intensity from montage overview
instead of center panel which can be missing.

* 6/23/08: Added ability to skip montage pieces outside of an arbitrary
Navigator polygon item.

* 6/23/08: Added Navigator menu item to add a circle polygon of specified
radius.

6/22/08: Fixed crash when the header title is more than 45 characters.

6/21/08: When a new montage is opened from a macro, it now inherits most
properties of the last montage that was open (especially overlap and 
stage vs. image shift).

* 6/21/08: Added query to supermontage about whether to mark points as Acquire,
and added hot keys A, Ctrl-Shift-A, and Shift-A for toggling Acquire state of
one, all, or a range of Navigator items.

* 6/21/08: Options to close valves will now turn off filament on nonFEG JEOLs.

6/11/08: SEM_2-8-1
6/11/08: Changed style of Navigator window so it can be minimized.

6/11/08: Made ChangeIntensityBy macro change intensity for current low dose
area, not Record area.

* 6/9/08: Added macro command to move stage to Navigator item.

* 6/8/08: Added macro commands for Return and Exit, SetDefocus, and
ReportMagIndex.  ReportMag and ReportMagIndex will set ReportedValue2 to 1 if
in low mag mode.

* 6/8/08: Expanded initial error checking of macros to check all macros being
called, to check for legal commands and for required number of entries after
them, and to prevent some diabolical variable assigments and substitutions.

6/6/08: On JEOL with Tietz camera and shutterbox allowing pre-exposure, made
it reset to beam shutter mode to prevent long closing of film shutter.

* 6/1/08: Added option to take View area pictures with higher underfocus.
Rearranged low dose panel so that most people can close up option section.

* 6/1/08: Added option to close valves at end of Navigator acquire at points.

* 6/1/08: Macro report commands now define variables RepVal1, etc., as
shorthand for ReportedValue1, etc.

6/1/08: Defined RestrictedSizeType 2 to not allow any subareas in camera
acquisition.

4/30/08: Changed SubareasAreBad so a value of 2 keeps beam intensity
calibration from using subareas completely. 

4/1/08: Switched to new method of driving Eagle camera via TEMScripting
component to allow control of pre-exposure; program will now work with either
TEMScripting or Tecnai instruments.

3/31/08: SEM_2-8-0
* 3/28/08: Added entry to Navigator menu for reading in map items with stock
acquisition states from a file separate from the current Navigator file.

3/28/08: Fixed the way a previously read-from image file is put in the file
chooser so that it goes to the right directory.

3/26/08: In Windows XP, added a message to title bar of file open dialog to
tell user to push Open after changing file filter.

* 3/23/08: Added entries in Navigator menu for setting scope and Record
parameters to the state used to acquire a map, and for restoring previous
state.  Rearranged accelerator keys in Navigator menu to make them more useful.

* 3/23/08: When Autosave is on in the Navigator menu, it will save a file
AUTOSAVEmmddhhmm.nav and remove this when a save file is defined or the
program exits.

3/23/08: Added option to tilt series setup to recenter beam on tracking
images, requested due to problems with nickel grids.

3/23/08: Added Tasks menu entry for setting the minimum and maximum tilt
increment for Walk Up.

3/14/08: Macro run from Navigator Acquire can be suspended and resumed without
Navigator going on to next point.

3/14/08: Macro editor now remembers its size and position.

* 3/14/08: Added option for drawing one or more circles on a live FFT.

3/14/08: Added hot key Ctrl-B for toggling Low Dose mode 'Blank beam when
screen down'.

* 3/14/08: Added dialog for running 'Acquire at Points' from Navigator, which
allows choice of initial actions before the acquisition and is a common path
for making maps or running a macro.

* 3/14/08: Added macro commands for opening, closing, and switching between
files; reporting the label and position of the current or a given navigator
item; realigning to a Navigator item other than the current one; waiting until
a given dose accumulates; and calling the beam-centering routine.

* 3/14/08: Added ability to start tilt series from a macro, which can in turn
be run from Navigator.  Added a dialog to set policies for what action to take
at certain choice points in a tilt series.

2/24/08: Eliminated unnecessary mode-setting calls when changing mag on JEOL.

2/24/08: Added IF/ELSE/ENDIF and BREAK and CONTINUE statements to macros.

2/23/08: SEM_2-7-8
2/19/08: Modified camera timing calibration to assess and allow for the time
it takes to blank beam and tried to make it robust against some JEOL
weirdness.

2/19/08: Implemented option to constrain coordinates, not just sizes, to
multiple of given number.

2/19/08: Added property to be able to run stage and image shift calibrations
with the subarea in the Trial set.

* 2/19/08: For a non-square camera, the "A Bit Less" button in camera setup
turns into a "Square" button to allow the current area to be trimmed to a
square.

2/19/08: Fixed camera area in camera setup dialog for non-square cameras.

2/19/08: Added a property to specify whether to gain normalize in SerialEM
for individual cameras and made menu entry set it camera-specific basis.

2/19/08: Fixed resetting of selectable copy buffer to E after a tilt series.

* 2/19/08: Added ability to have nested macro calls and loops in macros, to
assign to and use variables, to assign reported values to variables, to have a
loop index variable, and to do basic arithmetic in an assignment statement.

* 2/19/08: Added a macro tool palette with buttons for all macros.

2/11/08: Stopped trusting the events for determining whether a stage movement
was done.
  
1/15/08: Fixed some more problems with events on with image shift occuring
from internal mag or image shift changes.

1/15/08: Modified "pole touch" logic when tilt series does not reach the
expected angle, and added a "Reset Pole Angle" menu entry to let user recover
if they answer the question wrong.

12/27/07: Fixed tooltips for controls inside group boxes by deleting group box
and undoing.

* 12/27/07: Added property, RotateHeaderAngleBy180, to allow the tilt axis
angle output to the file header to be rotated to correct the handedness of
reconstructions.

* 12/26/07: Added ability to take gain references at up to 4 more binnings, and
to control whether DigitalMicrograph or SerialEM references are used for each
binning.

* 12/26/07: Implemented save and restore of image shift over various
transitions on the JEOL and when going into and out of diffraction on the
Tecnai with image shift offsets on.  This allows going into and out of search
mode in low dose without image shift errors.

12/26/07: Improved handling of image shift upon mag changes on the JEOL 
with events on.

* 12/26/07: Added ability to change intensity, spot size, or exposure time for
extra Record images.

12/17/07: Fixed quadrant numbering in "QuadrantMeans" macro and made
horizontal and vertical strips come all the way to the same corner near middle.

12/20/07: SEM_2-7-7
* 12/20/07: Turned off continuous update when leaving low dose.

12/16/07: Fixed problems with setup of image buffers in the extra stack which
caused crash on taking FFT of an image there and hopefully other crashes.
Fixed problem with saving image from a secondary window.

* 12/15/07: Saved image shift and stage shift calibrations in short term cal.

* 12/15/07: Added a property to skip the warning about checking the spot before
starting a gain reference.

12/15/07: Added relative gain factors for Eagle camera.

12/11/07: Disabled mouse stage shifting button during mag IS offset cal.

12/11/07: Fixed crash bug when making an image a map in a second nav file.

12/11/07: Added periodic autosave of short-term calibrations independent of
other autosaves.

11/29/07: Fixed bug when reading Navigator map with conversion to bytes and
X frame size is not a multiple of 4.

11/29/07: Prevented crossover recalibration from shifting C2 values out of
range.

11/29/07: Fixed bug in reporting an angle near 180 degrees from stage
calibration.

* 11/16/07: Added a Reset Defocus button to the microscope panel for JEOL only.

11/16/07: Made it treat stage movement with mouse like a task and prevent
other actions like taking a picture.

* 11/15/07: Added program information and starting time to log if it open; this
can be turned off with 'PrintStartupInfo 0'.

11/15/07: Added property to set lowest mag to be used for tasks in EFTEM mode.

11/15/07: Fixed the way a new mag mode is handled with events on JEOL.

* 11/8/07: Fixed handling of Z stage events on JEOL, which were clobbering Y
position.

11/2/07: Put in a confirmation message to prevent a user from taking a stage
montage with Prescan.

10/26/07: SEM_2-7-6
10/26/07: Fixed usage in ShowWindow statements which made Remove X ray box
in camera setup behave weirdly.

10/16/07: Fixed recording of dose from camera shot in cumulative dose meter
(broken 5/18/07).

10/15/07: Protected against reading in an image while doing a task or reading
a montage.

* 10/14/07: Added a property, TotalMemoryLimitMB, to keep program from trying
to access memory for montage overviews when it would cause swapping.
 
* 10/8/07: The montage controller will now compose the overview image as bytes
instead of integers when a map is being reloaded as bytes.  When there is not
enough memory for an overview image, it will increase the overview binning
until the reduced amount of memory is available.

* 10/8/07: Added a memory usage indicator and a Delete button to the Buffer
Control Panel to help manage memory.

10/3/07: SEM_2-7-5
* 9/24/07: Changed meaning of Verbose setting in Focus menu to mean that shift
and drift are output on every autofocus; stored as a user setting.

9/18/07: Fixed bug when taking a montage in low dose and coming from 
trial/focus area, fixed similar problem when calibrating image shift.

9/10/07: Prevented Refine ZLP from being screwed up by continuous or
unprocessed acquisition parameters.

9/7/07: Fixed updating of image shift on JEOL when using projector for image
shift and updating by event. 

8/15/07: Support for Eagle and AMT cameras added.

8/14/07: Added test and minimally noxious warning message when the net energy
filter offset goes negative on the JEOL.

8/7/07: Fixed problem with fine focus going out of range on JEOL.

7/20/07: Added a check for non-monotonic focus calibration curve.

7/20/07: Fixed camera timing routine when incoming built-in-settling is very
small.

* 7/20/07: Added property to issue a warning on startup if the voltage is not
at a particular value.

* 7/20/07: Added ability to force MDS off on program startup with
JEOLForceMDSmode -1.

5/23/07: SEM_2-7-4
* 5/18/07: Dose to specimen during camera exposure can now be saved in the
extra header.  This requires IMOD 3.10.9 to extract correctly (3.10.8 will
do it incorrectly).

* 5/17/07: Low dose areas can have specific alpha settings on the JEOL.

* 5/17/07: Low dose areas (e.g., Search) can now use diffraction mode;
diffraction focus is saved and restored on the Tecnai but not the JEOL.

5/16/07: Allowed post-tilt delays to be up to 4 times longer than the previous
limit as long as they are reasonable given the user's tilt delay parameter.

5/15/07: Fixed shift in navigator item display on images acquired on JEOL with
IS offsets or shifting to tilt axis turned on.

5/15/07: Increased default low mag shift limit to 150.

5/15/07: Made routine to calibrate IS offsets not check for Z stage position
changes, since it wobbles on the JEOL.  Enabled buffer copying and saving
during the routine.

5/15/07: Fixed list mags function on JEOL, which now throws an error when the
end of a mag range is reached.

5/15/07: Made verbose selection in tasks menu a retained setting.

5/15/07: Fixed scope status window to show LM or M correctly when the mag
doesn't change between the two.

* 5/14/07: Camera length is now detected in diffraction mode and displayed in
the scope status window.

* 5/13/07: Added a menu entry to set limits for full grid map and saved this
in user settings.

5/13/07: Reset image shift will now wait for stage ready and returns an error
if it is not ready soon.

* 5/13/07: Made WalkUp and Walkup and Anchor use the same target angle, and
stored this angle as a user setting.  Walkup and Anchor now uses and modifies
the anchor angle shown in the tilt series setup dialog.

5/11/07: Fixed frame number displayed in buffer status window for montage
prescan frames.

5/11/07: Made calibration of mag IS offsets work with projector shifts by
allowing calibration of a contiguous block of mags that have IS calibrations.

5/10/07: Made Reverse Tilt use TSMaxTiltError property to determine whether
a previous reversal was sufficient to overcome backlash, to avoid two reverse
tilts in a row on JEOL.

* 4/8/07: Made the Clear Alignment button and the Insert and Delete hot keys
work on the main image window even when another window has focus.

* 3/29/07: Added macro command to go to a low dose area and mentioned the macro
control dialog in the messages given when a macro stops due to a setting there.

3/26/07: SEM_2-7-3
* 3/26/07: Fixed bug reading in beam intensity calibrations that caused the
intensity values to be destroyed when the crossover calibration was redone.
All prior 2.7 versions should be abandoned due to this bug.

3/22/07: Stopped trying to retract non-retractable cameras for film exposure.

3/21/07: Fixed problem with beam being blanked during film exposure in low
dose.

3/20/07: SEM_2-7-2
* 3/18/07: Added a Realign to Item button to Navigator window.

* 3/18/07: When the very sloppy montage setting is selected, the overlap zones
will be analyzed with real-space correlations that avoid edge artifacts at the
shifts corresponding to the 10 highest peaks in the cross-correlation.
Montages are now read in from the center outward so that piece alignment in
the interior will not be thrown off by errors in the alignment of pieces on
the edge.  These two changes should make whole-grid montages align better.

* 3/18/07: Made montage reading able to be stopped with the STOP button, except
when reading in from a tilt series.

3/17/07: Added some lower zoom factors down to 0.05, and made panning work
1:1 with displayed image at zooms below 1, as in 3dmod

2/16/07: Fixed bug in the Realign to Item routine that crashed the program
when aligning to a map that had more pieces in Y than in X.

2/10/07: SEM_2-7-1
* 2/10/07: Added a Navigator menu entry to read maps in unbinned regardless of
the setting of overview binning in Montage Control; it starts out on by 
default but is saved as a user setting.

2/7/07: Stage movement calls will wait up to two seconds for stage to be ready
instead of giving a stage not ready message, even when called from places
where the stage is already supposed to be ready.

2/7/07: Fixed a vulnerability in rough eucentricity routine that led to
runaway negative tilts.

2/7/07: Made JEOL calls throw errors the same way that Tecnai calls do; this
will give a message box on error, or the message will go to the log if any
debugging output flag is on.

2/4/07: Set up a property to govern rough scaling of projector shift 
during initial calibration on JEOL.

2/1/07: Fixed test for using objective mini lens value in LM on JEOL.

1/31/07: SEM_2-7-0
* 1/23/07: Added a property to set a factor to use when matching pixel sizes
between preGIF and GIF cameras, so a difference in binning or a difference in
field of view can be accounted for.

* 1/23/07: Added Navigator menu entry to shift items by the distance between
the current item position and the position of a marker point on an image,
which avoids having to set up registration points.  There is also a menu entry
to undo this.

* 1/07: If supermontaging is being set up on a montage overview with aligned
pieces, the montage positions can be set up at regularly spaced image
positions rather than stage positions, and "Realign and Acquire" then gives
maps with fairly reliable amounts of overlap.

* 1/07: Added a routine to realign to a Navigator item position by correlation
with images in one or two maps.  This allows accurate return to a mapped point
even if the stage positions have become somewhat inaccurate.  Added a macro
routine to run this command on the current item or on the item that the macro
is currently being run at.

* 1/07: Made Navigator transformations work with an inversion (specimen
reloaded upside down).  Changed criteria so 5 points are required to solve for
a linear transformation.

* 1/07: Added ability to rotate a map to match its orientation at the current
magnification and the current registration.

* 1/07: Montaging and image and stage shift calibrations in low mag mode are
now done after asserting a standard focus, if one is defined.  This is
eucentric focus on the Tecnai, but a value needs to measured and set in
properties for a JEOL.  This is to give a standardized scaling and also to
give more reproducible positions by going to a focus where image movement upon
beam shift is minimal.

* 1/07: When montaging is done with "Align pieces" on, the shifts for the
pieces are stored and Navigator can use them to adjust stage positions for
points clicked in an aligned image, so point positions will be independent of
whether the overview is aligned or not.

1/07: Added a property to control the criterion change in mean counts in
the refine ZLP routine.

* 12/31/06: When a montage is set up by fitting to a Navigator area, it will
offer to make each montage a new map.

12/31/06: Fixed crash when converting a new map to bytes if the primary buffer
is a copy from another buffer.

12/31/06: Added partial bad column correction.

* 12/30/06: Added beam centering routine that detects beam edges in an image,
and added hot keys for set intensity, center beam, and move beam.

12/27/06: It now uses the stage calibration at the nearest mag instead of
averaging all stage calibrations; this may give better low mag montages.

* 12/26/06: Made stage calibration take multiple steps if necessary to span
one stage cycle in each direction, or a multiple of the cycle length for low
mags.  It now flashes image pairs to let user monitor alignment.  It reports a
tilt axis rotation angle which seems accurate.

12/26/06: Added macro command to make it easy to assess regular variation in
stage movement.

* 12/24/06: Added routine to calibrate image offsets between mags, ability to
turn on and off adjustments by these offsets, and adjustments for these
offsets in Navigator stage coordinates.

12/24/06: It now resets image shift when moving the stage with the mouse.

12/24/06: Added logic to increase image shift delay by an increment per
two-fold decrease in pixel size of Record image below 1 nm.  Also made delays
in general longer or shorter depending on startup time of camera relative to
time for Gatan 795.

* 12/21/06: Added Navigator menu item for changing registration of the current
item.

12/20/06: The autofocus routine will now reject a correlation peak at 0,0 if
the second peak is not too much smaller and the resulting defocus estimate is
not too much farther from the target defocus than the estimate from the 0,0
peak.

* 12/18/06: Added ability to have a separate window showing a stack of binned
images during tilt series, either the saved Records or montage overviews.
It is enabled through Extra Output dialog.

* 12/16/06: Added accelerator keys for opening and reading a file and for the
three FFT items.

* 12/16/06: Made tilt series setup show a real dose estimate as well as dose at
zero and starting tilt.

12/15/06: Made Align To button show actual buffer to align to in low dose when
there is an image in A.

12/15/06: Added defocus target to Align & focus panel.  Added filename to
buffer control panel.

* 12/15/06: Added an Acquire button to camera setup, which brings dialog back
up after taking a picture.  Dialog position is now remembered within a
session.

12/15/06: Implemented detection of GIF mode on JEOL and fixed pixel size
matching to work when switching between EFTEM and non EFTEM.  Prevented double
calls to the routine that changes program mode.

* 12/15/06: During setup of a montage from Navigator, the montage setup will
respond to changes in mag by refitting the montage to the desired area.  There
is also a new percent overlap control in this mode which also refits to the
area when changed.

* 12/14/06: Added menu entry for showing cross-correlation of existing
autofocus images.

12/13/06: Added a settings file to the MRU when saved with Save As.

12/13/06: Fixed problems with low dose parameters not being cleared when
reading a settings file without any.  Fixed problems with image shift
transfers to/from undefined areas.

* 12/13/06: Eliminated imposed scope image shift and shift of displayed image
when going between Balance Shifts and Center Unshifted, so you are still
looking at the same spot but the IS readout changes.  Disabled these buttons
unless all areas are defined.

12/13/06: Prevented Shift-right mouse shifting from affecting axis offset when
defining an area.  Made it display the cross in green when shifting an image
of the area being defined.

* 12/13/06: Implemented a low dose search area, not tied to camera acquisition,
for low mag or fast camera scanning.

12/12/06: Fixed camera timing calibration for Gatan camera with only one
shutter, maybe for real this time.

* 12/12/06: Added area labels to images in low dose mode.  Added a display of
the Record area and area being defined, with a circle around the area (or
the larger of trial and focus when they are tied).  Fixed synchronization of
areas when the tie button is turned on.  

12/12/06: Fixed labeling of single frame maps that have been converted to
bytes in buffer status window.  

* 12/11/06: Changed binned FFT to have target of 1024 and bin only up to 4.

12/11/06: Beam intensity and spot calibration will now keep track of the
calibrated crossover intensity, and when crossover is recalibrated (needed
after some alignment steps on Tecnai), these calibrations will be adjusted
by the change in crossover position.

* 12/10/06: Added ability to run a macro at areas marked "Acquire" in
Navigator.

* 12/10/06: Macro changes: Added arrow buttons to switch between macros in one
editing window, while retaining associations with files.  Added a MacroName
command; the name will show up in the editing window title bar and in the
camera/macro control panel buttons.  Added commands to retract cameras, take
film pictures, image shift along specimen axes, move stage to absolute
position, and open/close column valves.

* 12/5/06: Added Live FFT entry in Process menu, to do automatic FFT on any
image acquired in continuous mode.

12/5/06: Rewrote code for getting pixel sizes and rotation angles so that
values can be derived as much as possible from an absolute calibrated value,
using image shift calibrations and relative rotation angles where present.
The heirarchy of fallbacks was refined (hopefully improved) and should avoid
discontinuities when going from derived to fallback values.

12/4/06: SEM_2-6-3
12/4/06: Fixed rotation put in header to subtract 90 instead of adding it.

12/4/06: Fixed fatal montage bug; abandon 2.6.2 due to screwed up tagging.

11/27/06: SEM_2-6-2
11/27/06: Fixed bug in tilt angles used for fine eucentricity estimate which
gave bad estimates for lateral displacement; broke when doing changes for JEOL.

* 11/25/06: Made "Autosave log" save automatically to a log file whose name is
based on the current tilt series name if no log file is open yet.

* 11/24/06: Added ability to maintain separate gain references automatically
at specified alternative KV settings (see property SeparateGainReferenceKVs).

* 11/23/06: Added an "extra output" dialog to the Tilt Series menu to control
two kinds of output to separate image files.  1) All of the trial, focus, and
preview images taken by the TS controller can be selected for saving in
separate files; 2) After a Record is saved, a focus series or a series of
Record images with different filter settings can also be saved to a separate
file.

11/22/06: Fixed counting of retries of images too dim in a tilt series and
made montaging only retry once.  Also, montaging now does not fail from dim
images until over half of the frames are too dim.

* 11/12/06: Montaging can now be done in low dose mode.

* 11/8/06: Added ability to have multiple image files open and switch between
them with a spin button in the Buffer Control panel.

11/6/06: Stopped adjusting rotation angles put in header by 180 degrees to be
within +/-90 so that polarity can be preserved.

* 11/5/06: Added list of most recently used settings files to Settings menu to
allow rapid switching between settings.

10/x/06: Tietz pre-exposure now works, at least with Shutterbox II; it is
implemented by calling the EMShutter module.

8/28/06: SEM_2-6-1
8/15/06: Changed exposure timing for Tietz camera with new shutter box so
it is sum of pre-exposure and desired exposure; it may now work with new
shutter box. 

8/15/06: Added property to set gain index for Tietz camera.

7/24/06: Added property to set the initial current camera and improved handling
of properties and calibrations from inactive cameras.

7/10/06: Do image shift at higher mag when going between low dose areas
with different mags to prevent beam shift drift on JEOL.

6/24/06: Fixed timeouts in gain reference maker when dark references are
averaged.

6/9/06: Made sure tilt series controller got a correct tilt angle on the first
round when it figures out the actual starting angle.

6/5/06: SEM_2-6-0
5/27-6/2/06: 
The variable specifying that the X axis is inverted was not being initialized,
so stage calibrations would fail.  Released a 2.5.3a version with this fixed.

For JEOL, added property to exit when there is a startup error.  Reported
error when trying to close gun valve.  Made rough eucentricity routine use
actual angles and step incrementally from actual starting angle.  Provided
property to use objective mini lens for focus readout in low mag.  Renamed
C2 to C3 in low dose panel and other output.  Fixed handling of forbidden
negative energy shifts in both the mag energy shift calibration and the refine
ZLP routines.

Implemented a task to tilt and realign that would be applied on the tilt after
image shift is reset during walk up or during a tilt series.  This should
solve the major remaining tracking vulnerabiity on JEOLs.

The energy offset adjustment (resulting from Refine ZLP and setting a slit
offset on the JEOL) will now be remembered for up to 1 hour between sessions
of the program.

Added startup message option in properties file.

Added property entry to start in Administrative mode.

Made properties case insensitive.

Turned off low dose continuous update when resuming a tilt series.

Added Process menu entry to show cross-correlation from autoalign.

Added Calibration menu entry to set debug output string.

Separated low dose current area name from parameters so it is no longer grayed
out with continuous update off.

Changed DM plugin to set film shutter normally open when assrting beam shutter
normally closed, to cancel the DM drift settling which can be inherited from
the DM Record parameters, and to ignore bogus incoming divide by 2 values
on Downing's scope.

5/20-5/26/06:
For JEOL, implemented fancier delay for stage access only after a mag change,
provided option to use projector instead of image shift, and added a routine
to keep out of raneg image shift values from being sent to scope.  Added
periodic polling for all parameters when updating by event.  Changed the spot
intensity calibration to save the intensity for each spot size.

Used mean instead of min intensity to assign crossover to intensity tables.

Stopped trying to adjust focus when resetting image shift in low mag.

Substituted LM for X in scope status panel when in low mag.

Added standard autoalign filtering to the correlations in image/stage shift
calibration.

Shifted image shift calibration images so alignment can be checked, but left
it to user to set rolling buffers big enough.

5/14/06: For JEOL, initialized small screen variable when scope does not
report small screen.  Prevented image shift routine from using the value from
memeory when updating by event if the value is not yet valid, which should
prevent wild image shift resets on program startup.

4/514/06: Made sure camera timing routine selects beam shutter if there is
only one shutter.

5/14/06: Subtracted dead time when computing dose for an exposure, made
low-dose module call the right routine for getting an effective exposure time.

5/14/06: Added procedure to measure camera dead time.

5/14/06: Added menu entry to list stage calibrations as specimen to stage
matrices.

5/14/06: Fixed problem with low dose image shift transition across
non-congruent mags.

5/12/06: Shifted stage calibration images to provide visual check on 
calibration.

5/12/06: Added shutter dead time camera property so that exposures get
scaled properly when going to lower mag if there is significant dead time.

5/7/06: Made "pole touch" message angle dependent and made it output to the
log also; made it wait and resample the angle in case there is some
communication problem.

5/7/06: Fixed problem with listing image shift vectors for low mag and rotated
vectors by the scope or calibrated rotation angle, so vector angles really 
should stay constant.

5/7/06: Made option to remove X-rays appear in camera dialog only if enabled
by a camera property or if turned on in any of the parameter sets for that
camera.  This was done under the assumption that only Ken Downing's camera
needs this option.

5/7/06: Fixed reporting of Preview dose at end of tilt series.

5/7/06: Changed routine that provides focus calibration for an uncalibrated
mag so that it rotates a calibration using specimen rather than image shift
coordinates unless image shift is calibrated at both mags and congruent
between the two mags.

5/7/06: Made low dose remember the previous area to show with screen down when
starting to define an area, and restore that after turning off define area.

5/7/06: Made low dose assert the filter settings for an omega filter when
going to a new area with the screen down.

5/7/06: Modified low dose module to use axis position and specimen coordinates
instead of image shift values where appropriate to avoid problems from
noncongruent image shifts on the JEOL.

5/1/06: Activated option to close beam valve at end of tilt series for JEOL.

5/1/06: SEM_2-5-3
4/28/06: Added property to set a delay after changing mag in JEOL.

4/27/06: Fixed adjustment for neutral IS value changes in routine that
sets mag.

4/26/06: Called ResetDefocus in JEOL startup to make sure the focus has been
read before it gets manipulated.

4/25/06: Made reassertion of image shift upon mag change more robust against
multiple mag steps.

4/24/06: Added option to remove X rays from selected image types to prevent
tracking problems from big X-rays in low dose images.

4/23/06: Added help button to Macro editor window; the macro command list can
then be reached by clicking a link.

4/23/06: Added menu entry to reopen and append to an existing log file.

4/23/06: Made stage calibration routine always start with a fallback 1:1
scaling between specimen and stage coordinates instead of averaging existing
calibrations, to avoid being thrown off by bad calibrations.

4/23/06: Added menu entry to list the image shift calibration vector lengths
and angles, so that the accuracy of the calibrations and the existence of
boundaries can be assessed more easily.

4/23/06: Made failed calls to JEOL retry on more types of errors and limited
it to 10 retries.

4/5/06: Added property to specify minimum exposure time when exposure time
needs to decreased upon going to a lower mag.  This applies to tasks and to 
low mag tracking.

4/5/06: Added trace routine for easy debugging output to Log Window, including
from threads.

4/5/06: SEM_2-5-2
4/5/06: Changed registration number of loaded maps after transforming to a new
registration.

4/5/06: Set gain of Tietz camera to 1.

4/5/06: Allowed reading of montages with entire rows or columns missing and
modified navigator (and .nav file) to be able to draw items correctly on these
maps after they are read back in.

4/5/06: Fixed handling of input focus after user enters a number in axis offset
field of low dose panel.

3/21/06: Fixed bug in dark X-ray removal for images smaller than 100 pixels in
X or Y. 

3/20/06: Doubled the thresholds for the montage error reports to avoid bad
messages at high tilt when error is ~2.

3/19/06: Fixed very sloppy montage option so it would be applied when reading
in from a file.

3/19/06: Added ability to average dark references.

3/19/06: Added menu items to Navigator to define an array of montages either
square to the camera axes or square to the specimen axes.

3/16/06: Defined one binning for default camera and added error message when
a camera number is used twice.

3/12/06: SEM_2-5-1
3/10/06: Added -fs to the na label on the screen current when SerialEM thinks
the focusing screen is in.  This happened because of confusion caused by
incorrect reports that the screen was in after a reboot.

2/23/06: Stopped scope calls from being issued twice on JEOL.

2/x/06: Added properties to set a simulation mode, to specify that there is
no spectrum offset, and to invert the X axis.

2/1/06: Fixed problem of image shift not going back to starting position after
the first round in the new calibration from scratch.

1/20/06: SEM_2-5-0
1/17/06: Made tilt series go no farther than 0.25 degree past the defined
endpoint.

1/5/06: Disabled intensity zoom during beam calibration.

12/28/05: Added option for stopping after aligning the tracking shot so that
position can be adjusted manually and automatically taken as the new reference
position (requested by Dalaver Anjum).

12/28/05: Added option to close column valves at end of tilt series (requested
by Bryon Donohoe).

12/28/05: Modified camera timing calibration routine to find best startup delay
for testing timing automatically, even if the built in settling is set too
long, and made it work for Tietz cameras.

12/28/05: Fixed composition of montage overview to avoid crashes when pieces
are displaced by very large amounts from nominal positions.  Implemented
very sloppy montage correlation parameters matching those in Blendmont and
added an option to montage control window, which is set when a montage is
defined as being done with stage movement.  Also shifted overview so that the
average offset of the pieces is zero.

12/26/05: For JEOL, added calibration of image shift neutral values, and
tracking of image shift values so that it can reassert an appropriate image
shift after a mag change.   The program should not need to force the scope
into MDS mode to preserve image shift during mag changes, and it should work
with neutral values other than 8000,8000.

12/26/05: It will try to preserve an actual image shift when mag changes across
a boundary (other than LM-M) where image shifts are non-congruent.

12/26/05: Made first round of image shift calibration from scratch use only 4
pictures and made it avoid using any information from existing image shift
calibrations.  After an image shift calibration, it will now offer to change
all calibrations in the same mag range even when not in administrator mode.

12/26/05: Added ability to have multiple beam shift calibrations.  This is
needed for low mag versus mag mode, but also there can be one calibration per
mag range defined by the image shift boundaries. 

12/26/05: Implemented ability to specify boundaries where image shift behaves
discontinuously, in addition to the low mag - mag mode boundary.  Image
shift calibrations will not be transferred across these boundaries.  Beam shift
calibration is not assumed to be the same across boundaries but is computed
via specimen coordinates.

12/26/05: Fixed bug in reading stage limits for whole grid montaging.

12/24/05: Beam intensity calibration now normalizes the spot intensity.

12/20/05: Added calibration of relative spot size intensities so that dose
only needs to be calibrated at one spot size.  Dose calibration is now stored
in a new short-term calibration file instead of the user's settings file.

12/20/05: Added a cumulative dose meter, opened with a tiny button on the
microscope setting panel.  It keeps track of all pictures (except trial/focus
in low dose) and of dose while the screen is down.

12/20/05: Dose will now be automatically calibrated for a spot size when a
gain reference is taken.  There is a new option to normalize the spot before
starting, which is needed to get an accurate calibration with spot 1 on the
F20, at least.

12/20/05: Converted X and Y piece coordinates to unsigned shorts so they can be
bigger that 32767.

12/20/05: Added ability to read and write unsigned 16-bit integer files (file
mode 6).  The option to write in this mode will appear in the file properties
dialog when there is a 16-bit camera with divide by 2 off, or when there is an
unsigned image in the buffers.  The menu option for changing the 16-bit policy
will be enabled under the same conditions.  There is also a new menu option
for controlling how signed integer data are written to an unsigned file.

12/19/05: Added a camera property to specify when taking a subarea image will
make the next picture of the full area bad; this is used when taking again
reference.

12/19/05: Added a camera property to specify when there is only one shutter
so that the camera setup dialog will disable shuttering options.

12/19/05: Added confirmation message box for the Copy to V-F-T-R buttons in
low dose.

12/19/05: Made it possible to run a GIF on a JEOL scope, assuming that the
user changes to an EFTEM-like lens mode by hand.

9/2/05: Added a button to set trim fraction for autoalign.

7/26/05: SEM_2-4-5
7/26/05: Fixed error messages for errors writing to file.

7/26/05: Made DM plugin affect only the 3 corrections for defect, bias, and
linearization; in DM 3.9.3 it seemed to turn on an overscan mode otherwise.

7/21/05: Fixed handling of Tietz cameras as 16-bit and implemented division
by two if selected.  Fixed handling of shuttering so that drift settling is
available only if the hardware pre-exposure is available.  Converted the JEOL
beam shift calibration parameter to a property.  Converted the properties for
specifying a minimum mag index for beam calibration and mag energy shift
calibration to specifications of minimum field size, with defaults of 8.

5/29/05: Fixed List Mags routine for JEOL with update by event enabled.

5/24/05: SEM_2-4-4
5/23/05: Added hysteresis correction for low-dose mode by passing through
View intensity/spot size when changing between other areas.  Added independent
beam offsets for each low dose area.

5/19/05: Fixed bug in setting new binning for image shift calibration.

5/18/05: Changed the way the JEOL class ID is specified.

5/11/05: SEM_2-4-3
4/25/05: Caught memory exceptions when starting montage, during image 
acquisitions, and when creating pixmap, which should eliminate some crashes
when running out of memory making and using big maps.

4/25/05: Fixed  crashing when user pressed close button second time while
dialog was up asking to save log/settings/etc.

3/18/05: SEM_2-4-2
3/18/05: Prevented stop signal from aborting the next image acquisition.

3/18/05: Fixed problem in computation of tilt axis offset, which was only
correct when already eucentric and with image shift at zero.

2/7/05: Made new beam calibration procedure change mag when beam gets spread
enough to do so safely, thus avoiding highly spread, unrealistic beam
settings.

1/13/05: SEM_2-4-1
12/22/04: Implemented new beam calibration procedure that uses CCD camera
instead of screen meter since the screen meter was hopeless on the JEOL; this
works better anyway.

12/17/04: Changes for JEOL: added a fix for bad font and dialog sizes when the
display is not at 120 DPI; implemented structure to update scope variables
using events from the JEOL COM object; eliminated all calls to the scope from
the regular update function so that it can be called frequently; turned on MDS
photo mode upon program startup and checked for it when doing tasks; added an
easy way to set an energy offset for aligning the slit so that offsets can be
adjusted both positive and negative.  This is in addition to minor bug fixes
required when testing the program at Berkeley.

12/16/04: Fixed 4 GB file size limit.

11/12/04: Fixed mirroring of FFT (off by one pixel); made it remember to
shift montage pieces in overview in settings.

10/13/04: Increased timeouts for fine eucentricity, reduced maximum increase
in basic tilt delay to a factor of 2, and added a button to specify autoalign
to buffer B instead of having this depend on Copy on Save.

10/6/04: SEM_2-4-0
10/3/04: Added an option to stop tilt series if alignment shift is large.

10/2/04: Reduced memory usage of maps by 2/3 by converting to bytes and making
them the same size as the pixmap needed for display.  Removed unneeded pixmap
in destination buffer when copying an image to a buffer, so that memory can
be fully reclaimed by copying images over big maps.

10/1/04: Added a four-port readout camera property, and made binning offsets
be set automatically for 4-port readout.  Fixed bug in getting gain reference
from DM for binnings 3 and 6 with 4-port readout camera.  Took binning offset
properly into account when removing X-rays from dark reference.

9/17/04: Fixed bug to keep periodic refine ZLP from stopping tilt series.

9/15/04: Fixed bug to get periodic refine ZLP during tilt series working.

9/14/04: Fixed bug in which setting camera in tilt series setup dialog had no
effect.

9/11/04: Added option to run reset image shift and realign with the trial
parameter set in Low dose mode, and menu entry to set the minimum shift for
reiterating this procedure.

9/11/04: Fixed bug in which Refine ZLP routine replaced camera binning of
2 with 8.  Also made camera setup dialog pick nearest binning when no binning
in the camera parameters matches the binning in the parameter set.

9/11/04: Merged JEOL changes; fixed bug in this version that caused a lens
normalization delay before every shot in Low Dose mode.

9/10/04: SEM_2-3-5
9/9/04: Conditionally switched to using underlying file dialog directly from
a thread; this fixes the problem of the MFC file dialog hanging on some systems
(ones with IE6?).

9/8/04: Allowed the refine zero loss peak to work from an initial offset if
it is small.

9/7/04: SEM_2-3-4
9/7/04: Allowed buffers with maps to have independent zooms.

9/6/04: Added routine to refine alignment of zero-loss peak that works even
with very small zero-loss peaks, and added capability to run routine
periodically during tilt series.  Also fixed a bug that led to display of
wrong net offset value.

9/5/04: Kept TSC from insisting that Record size equal file size if montaging.

9/5/04: Fixed bug in which camera setup dialog was accessing wrong camera's 
binning array.

9/3/04: Kept TSC from asking whether to close a file with data and open a new
file if it was a montage.

9/3/04: Fixed problem with insufficient image intensity not being detected 
for montaging; now only processed images are excluded from the spot mean
function.

9/3/04: Fixed problem with electron dose estimate in camera setup dialog
not being based on master low dose parameters.

9/2/04: Fixed problem with setting exposure in camera timing test.

8/30/04: Initialized stage montage variable based on low versus regular mag
when starting montage normally; made TSC set the mag for a montage based on
montage parameter mag, allow it to be changed if not used yet, and sync a
mag change back into montage parameters.

8/26/04: SEM_2-3-3
8/26/04: Changed default camera parameter setup to work better with different
sized cameras so camera parameters can be omitted from distributed settings
file.  Fiddled installation instructions.

8/25/04: SEM_2-3-2
8/25/04: Fixed problem with calibration file being saved to wrong place if
system path is relative and an image file is saved first to another location.

8/24/05: Fixed tapering over bad rows and columns to taper to a local mean
instead of the mean of the whole edge.

8/13/05: Implemented changes to deal with 16-bit camera, principally division
by 2 in the plugin as a user selectable option.  This allows negative numbers
to be retained for low-exposure images in case the dark reference wanders.
Made plugin detect flipping about vertical axis and flip a DM gain reference
before passing it to SerialEM.

8/3/04: Fixed plugin to open the other shutter for extra pre-exposure, not
just shutter 1.

7/20/04: Prevented selections of zero camera area.

6/11/04: Fixed a bug that crashed if tried to acquire areas in Navigator with
no file open.

6/6/04: Added ability to set tilt axis offset, using value from last refine
eucentricity run if desired.

5/7/04: Fixed bugs allowing read buffer to go past maximum buffer directly or
when going into low dose mode.

5/3/04: SEM_2-3-1

4/5/04: Fixed crash when trying to save FFT with intensity saving selected.

4/4/04: Added transforming of map, ability to display points from other
registrations, and report of registration number for all items.  Added codes
for prescan overview and center images, in order to prevent Navigator
from making a map from a prescan.

3/21/0/4: SEM_2-3-0

Implemented ability to read a montage from "Other file", even if the currently
open file is a montage.

Made selectable binnings for the prescan and for the overview image, so that
either can be viewed at any desired resolution up to that of the Record
images.

Implemented option to shift pieces into register when building an overview
image.

Added ability to do montage with stage movement instead of image shift.

Added ability to skip pieces in a montage.  Montages with stage movement will
exclude pieces outside the stage range.  Montages set up by Navigator will
skip pieces not needed to capture the desired area.

Fixed mouse shifting code to allow shifting of montage overview and added
ability to shift an anchor image too.

Changed image shift calibration to allow calibration of image shift in LM
mode and to reduce the delays when calibrating the lowest M mode mags.

Reduced image shift time delays in general for lower M mode mags.

Prevented the transfer of image shift calibrations across the LM-M boundary
and fixed the transfer of calibrations to estimate rotation angle from the
known angle at another mag and the difference between Tecnai rotations at the
two mags, instead of relying on Tecnai rotation itself.

Implemented calibration of stage shift.

Improved the treatment of limits for image shift in calibrating and actually
using image shift; added properties MaxCalibrationImageShift and
MaxLMCalibrationImageShift.

Fiddled with idle time processing to prevent settling time delays from being
extended and to sneak a processing cycle more often.

Reduced boilerplate code for doing tasks by passing a task ID to the idle time
processor.

Created a new module for menu targets and moved code out of other modules.

Fixed the conversion of Tecnai intensity to C2 values and provided a
calibration routine to determine and save the conversion factor and an offset
for each spot size.

Intensity calibrations can now be saved for both sides of crossover, and there
is a new calibration procedure to inform the program of crossover at each spot
size.

Added ability to save intensities in the extended header so that they can be
used to correct for magnification gradients in tilted images (flag to make
this the default is 16 in FileOptionsExtraFlags).

Added a camera property, CountsPerElectron, a dose calibration procedure,
reporting of dose in the low dose control panel and the camera setup dialog
dialog, and summary of dose for a tilt series.

The new Navigator window allows one to save and return to stage locations, set
up montages to capture defined areas, build maps of large areas of a grid, go
to selected locations on a map, acquire medium-scale maps from a series of
locations automatically, and transform locations after moving the grid in the
holder.

Added a menu entry to do walkup and leave an anchor in buffer P.

Made walkup able to lower the mag so that it is always reliable.

Added two alignment steps to protect against drift at start of tilt series: an
alignment to the image in buffer A when starting at zero tilt, and an
alignment to the last image of a walkup.

Activated automatic trimming of dark borders from images for autoalignment
when doing low mag tasks, and added option to trim borders always, not just in
low dose mode.

Added property TiltAxisOffset to specify the lateral offset of the tilt axis
and an option to center image shift on the tilt axis.

Made the GIF slit get opened to a minimum width when doing low mag tasks to
avoid shadows from slit in these tasks; added properties MinLowMagSlitWidth
and SlitWideningSafetyFactor to indicate the minimum slit size and the extra
amount to lower intensity when opening the slit to the minimum.

When doing tilt series in low dose mode or with lower mag tracking, the
low mag or tracking reference will now be shifted by the same amount as the
Record image is off, eliminating the need to take a new reference because of
reference conflicts.

Made the tilt series setup dialog smarter about whether the series is starting
at zero or at high tilt, reorganized the starting actions into one box, and
made them be enabled only when relevant.

Added an inverse power to the cosine intensity scaling during a tilt series,
so that the variation in intensity could be moderated.

Added relative dose summary information to the tilt series startup, which is
particularly useful when doing cosine tilts and/or cosine intensity changes.

Added more options for controlling intensity: an option to say that intensity
is all set for high tilt and should not be increased above the current value;
and an option to increase the intensity by the cosine factor before starting.

Added a module to acquire pairs of overlapping images at zero image shift by
moving the stage, used for solving for distortion field.

Added an absolute threshold in microns for doing stage instead of image shift
with right mouse button.

Changed the intensity checking during tilt series to use a central spot,
and gave the user an option to reset the criterion if it still fails on a 
good image.  In properties files, need to change TSBadShotCrit to  0.2 and
TSBadLowMagCrit to 0.1.



1/2/04: Added check for unsaved calibrations on exit when in administrator
mode.

1/12/04: Made beam intensity calibration wipe out tables at all mags for
a given spot size.

1/11/04: Added buttons for shifting and recentering area to camera setup
dialog, and an output for binned size.  Also made autofocus compensate for
the location of an off-denter focusing box and report and set focus at the
center of the field.

11/22/03: SEM-2-2-4
For Tietz camera, implemented an offset for binned pictures so that the 
unbinned gain reference would work for binned pictures.

Modified plugin to convert 32-bit signed images from 16-bit camera to
16-bit unsigned by truncating at 0.

11/13/03: SEM-2-2-3

Fixed problem with camera parameters not getting copied to working set when
reading in a settings file.

Fixed problems with megabyte output to logbook.

Fixed logic in display image shift so mouse shifting will only work on
buffer A or an autoalign buffer.  Made autoalign shift montage overview along
with montage center, and leave the overview displayed if appropriate.

Fixed problem with the mapping between maximum error and report for montaging.

Fixed undefined camera pointer when reading in a montaged image.

Fixed logic for dealing with locked Tietz camera and names of file mapping
areas.

10/14/03: SEM_2-2-2

Added workaround to DM 3.7.1.5 problem, by having SerialEM send a negative
shutter index to the plugin to keep it from trying to set shutter index.  This
version must be distributed with corresponding plugin version.

Made the idle-time processor check for long intervals since the last idle
time call and add these to any timeouts that are set, preventing timeouts if
the computer goes out to lunch or if user opens a menu.

Added LogBook output

Set timeout even longer for Records in tilt series because the TS controller
doesn't know when camera controller will take a new dark reference due to age.

Added ability to drive Tietz cameras

SEM_2-2-1 tagged before adding Tietz Camera capability
Improved timeout settings for image capture from TSC so that a >2K camera
would be given extra time, and a Record capture that is getting a dark
reference would be given double the time.

Fixed a bug in the new code for getting a track image just before a new low
mag reference, which caused a crash with divide by 0.

SEM_2-2-0 released
